The Sixth Carbon Budget
The UK’s path to Net Zero
December 2020
2
The Sixth Carbon Budget 
The UK's path to Net Zero
Committee on Climate Change
December 2020 
Presented to the Secretary of State pursuant to 
section 34 of the Climate Change Act 2008 
© Committee on Climate Change Copyright 2020 
The text of this document (this excludes, where present, the Royal Arms and all departmental or 
agency logos) may be reproduced free of charge in any format or medium provided that it is 
reproduced accurately and not in a misleading context. The material must be acknowledged as 
Committee on Climate Change copyright and the document title specified.  
Permission from copyright holders must be sought before any photographs are reproduced. You 
can download this publication from www.theccc.org.uk/publications 
All enquiries related to this publication should be sent to: communications@theccc.org.uk 
3 
Acknowledgements 
The team that prepared this report and its analysis: This was led by Chris Stark, Mike 
Thompson and David Joffe and included Tom Andrew, Owen Bellamy, Marili 
Boufounou, Peter Budden, Cloe Cole, Eoin Devane, Ellie Davies, Aaron Goater, 
Neil Grant, Rachel Hay, Mike Hemsley, Robbie Herring, Jenny Hill, Jaya Jassi, Ewa 
Kmietowicz, Harry Lightfoot Brown, Jake Langmead-Jones, Bianca de Farias Letti, 
Cheryl Mackenzie, Richard Millar, Chloe Nemo, Jacadi Nicholas, Simon Rayner, 
Vivian Scott, Alexandra Scudo, Richard Taylor, Indra Thillainathan, Emma Vause, 
and Louis Worthington. 
Other members of the Secretariat who contributed to this report: Jo Barrett, 
Kathryn Brown, Victoria de la Cruz, Tom Dooks, Brendan Freeman, Suzanna Hinson, 
Gemma Holmes, Miriam Kennedy, Cara Labuschagne, James Lees, Charles 
Odunuga, Penny Seera, David Style, and Sean Taylor.  
Organisations and individuals that carried out research for the report:  
Aurora Energy Research, John Barrett (University of Leeds), Cambridge 
Econometrics, Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, Element Energy, Energy Systems 
Catapult, Energy UK, Alice Garvey and Peter Taylor (University of Leeds), Dr Clair 
Gough (University of Manchester), the Met Office Hadley Centre, Louise Marix-
Evans, Kate Scott (University of Manchester), Scottish Rural College, techUK, Terri 
Wills, University College London, Dr Nem Vaughan (University of East Anglia), and 
Vivid Economics. 
Our special advisor on COP26: Pete Betts. 
Our three expert Advisory Groups and industry policy steering group:  
Policy Advisory Group: Professor Cameron Hepburn (Chair), Tera Allas (McKinsey), 
Laura Cozzi (IEA), Michael Liebreich (Liebreich Associates), Professor Jim Skea (Just 
Transition Commission), Professor Lorraine Whitmarsh (Cardiff University), Giles Wilkes 
(Institute for Government) and Baroness Bryony Worthington (House of Lords). 
Finance Advisory Group: Professor Nick Robins (Chair), Roberta Pierfederici (LSE), 
Andy Howard (Schroders), Dr Ben Caldecott (Oxford University), Daniel Klier (HSBC), 
Ingrid Holmes (Federated Hermes), Dr Rhian-Mari Thomas (Green Finance Institute), 
Rishi Madlani (RBS) and Dr Steve Waygood (Aviva). 
Health Advisory Group: Professor Sir Michael Marmot (Chair), Alice Munro (Public 
Health Specialty Registrar), Dr Tammy Boyce (The King’s Fund), Professor Sir Andy 
Haines and Professor Paul Wilkinson (London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine), Dr Ian Hamilton (UCL Energy Institute), Professor Susan Jebb (Oxford 
University), Dr Nick Watts (Lancet Countdown on Climate Change), Dr Adrian Davis 
(UWE and Edinburgh Napier), Professor Helen ApSimon (Imperial College London) 
and Sonia Roschnik (NHS Sustainable Development Unit). 
Industry Policy Steering Group: Frank Aaskov (Make UK), Chris Bataille (IDDRI), 
Debbie Baker (CF Fertilisers), Tanisha Beebee (CBI), Roz Bullied (Green Alliance), 
Diana Casey and Richard Leese (Mineral Products Association), Paul Davies (CCUS 
Advisory Group Chair), Steve Freeman and David Morgan (Confederation of 
Paper Industries), Alasdair Graham (Energy Transitions Commission), Peter Levi and 
Christophe McGlade (International Energy Agency), Mercedes Maroto-Valer 
(IDRIC), Harry Thorne (Oil and Gas UK), Richard Twinn (UK Green Building Council), 
 
4 
Adam Whitmore (Bellona), Paul Williams (SMMT-OHEEG Chair), Tomas Wyns and 
Gauri Khandekar (Institute for European Studies).  
 
All group members appeared in their personal capacities. 
 
Our design and digital agencies: Anoushka Rodda and Pali Palavathanan 
(TEMPLO) and Mat Burhouse (Slingshot). 
 
A wide range of stakeholders and organisations who participated in workshops, 
engaged with us, submitted evidence or met with the Committee bilaterally.  
 
 
5 
Foreword 
I am pleased to present the Climate Change Committee’s recommendations for 
the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget which will run from 2033 to 2037. This report builds on 
the advice we gave last year, which led to Net Zero becoming law throughout the 
UK. 
 
Whereas then we painted a detailed picture of the UK in 2050, now, we describe 
the path to Net Zero. We explore the changes that the UK will see on that journey 
and detail the steps that must be taken to ensure we stick to our essential 
endeavour. 
 
This is the most comprehensive advice we have ever produced. It is a blueprint for 
a fully decarbonised UK. A rich depiction of the choices before us in reaching the 
goal of net-zero greenhouse gases by 2050 at the latest. 
 
Our recommended pathway requires a 78% reduction in UK territorial emissions 
between 1990 and 2035. In effect, it brings forward the UK’s previous 80% target by 
nearly 15 years. There is no clearer indication of the increased ambition implied by 
the Net Zero target than this. Our pathway meets the Paris Agreement stipulation 
of ‘highest possible ambition’. It is challenging but also hugely advantageous, 
creating new industrial opportunities and ensuring wider gains for the nation’s 
health and for nature.  
 
Some of our most important work is on the costs of the transition. Low carbon 
investment must scale up to £50 billion each year to deliver Net Zero, supporting 
the UK’s economic recovery over the next decade.  This investment generates 
substantial fuel savings, as cleaner, more-efficient technologies replace their fossil-
fuelled predecessors. In time, these savings cancel out the investment costs entirely 
– a vital new insight that means our central estimate for costs is now below 1% of 
GDP throughout the next 30 years. 
 
The pace of our recommended emissions path tells an important story about what 
must follow and what has gone before. We don’t reach Net Zero simply by wishing 
it. There must be a process and a sequence by which we reach the goal. Progress 
is more gradual in the early years as we make up for lost ground. Scaling up new 
policy development, ramping up new supply chains for low-carbon goods, 
addressing sectors that have progressed too slowly: transport, industry, buildings, 
agriculture. A critical moment arrives in the early 2030s, as sales of most high-
carbon goods are phased out altogether. UK emissions fall sharply over the 2030s, 
before levelling off in the 2040s, as we clear the final hurdles to Net Zero. 
 
The implication of this path is clear: the utmost focus is required from government 
over the next ten years. If policy is not scaled up across every sector; if business is 
not encouraged to invest; if the people of the UK are not engaged in this 
challenge - the UK will not deliver Net Zero by 2050. The 2020s must be the decisive 
decade of progress and action. 
 
Yet, that progress will be impossible if it is not just. Fairness in the transition to Net 
Zero is an essential constituent for its success. In aggregate, the costs are low - but 
that must not hide the need to distribute the costs and the benefits fairly. Our 
recommended path heralds a major transition in the economy and jobs. There will 
be new low-carbon employment opportunities, but there will also be high-carbon 
sectors that shrink.  
6
These impacts can be highly concentrated in some regions of the UK. We must 
prepare now for those changes. It is the government’s role to ensure we have the 
training and the skills that those changes require.  National, regional, and local 
investment in low carbon industries is now an economic and social priority. 
Combatting climate change provides us with the means of levelling up as an 
essential part of our economic revival. 
In this endeavour, we will not be alone. The club of nations that has committed to 
Net Zero has grown significantly since our report last year. These new pledges, 
including those of China and the EU, South Korea and Japan, as well as the 
expected pledge from the US, offer mutual advancement. These are our markets 
of the future and, as low-carbon technologies and strategies develop around the 
world, we can be more assured of the global response to climate change and the 
widespread transitions that are underway in energy, transport, and industry. These 
will also mean that the reduction in our territorial emissions will be mirrored in the 
reduction of the carbon footprint of our imported goods and services. 
The signs point to a propitious moment for global climate ambition in Glasgow next 
year. But our international leadership, in the Presidency of COP26 and of the G7, 
must begin at home. Our influence in the wider world rests ultimately on strong 
domestic ambition.  
For this we look to the framework provided by the UK’s Climate Change Act, which 
has governed the work of the Committee in producing this report. The basis of the 
British approach to tackling climate change is contained in the mix of 
responsibilities that the Act lays out so clearly. An independent body, the Climate 
Change Committee, advises on targets and delivery and measures progress. The 
long-term emissions goal is determined by the UK’s international obligations, 
themselves reflecting the scientific imperatives. Interim targets, expressed in the 
carbon budgets, are set in line with that long-term goal, stimulating short-term 
action. But the responsibility of meeting these carbon budgets – of actually 
delivering on the advice and the commitments – rests with Government. This 
Report gives the Government and Parliament the route map to meeting those 
statutory obligations. 
This is the governance system that has served the UK well since 2008 and this Sixth 
Carbon Budget is its most complete expression. It is the product of an immense 
effort from my Committee and the talented team that supports it. I commend the 
advice strongly to Ministers and I urge the Government to legislate for the Sixth 
Carbon Budget as soon as possible. That would constitute the strongest statement 
of our ambition to tackle climate change. It is a decisive moment for global Britain. 
Lord Deben 
Chair of the Climate Change Committee 
7 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The Committee 
 
 
 
The Rt. Hon John Gummer, Lord Deben,  
Chairman 
Lord Deben was the UK’s longest-serving Secretary of State 
for the Environment (1993 to 1997). He has held several 
other high-level ministerial posts, including Secretary of 
State for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (1989 to 1993). 
Lord Deben also runs Sancroft, a corporate responsibility 
consultancy working with blue-chip companies around 
the world on environmental, social and ethical issues.  
 
Baroness Brown of Cambridge DBE FRS 
Deputy Chair 
Baroness Brown of Cambridge DBE FREng FRS (Julia King) 
is an engineer, with a career spanning senior 
engineering and leadership roles in industry and 
academia. She currently serves as Chair of the CCC’s 
Adaptation Committee; non-executive director of the 
Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult; and Chair of the 
Carbon Trust.  
 
 
 
 
 
Professor Keith Bell 
 
 
Keith Bell is a co-Director of the UK Energy Research 
Centre (UKERC), a Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh. He has been at the University 
of Strathclyde since 2005, was appointed to the Scottish 
Power Chair in Smart Grids in 2013 and has been involved 
in energy system research in collaboration with many 
academic and industrial partners.  
 
Professor Nick Chater 
 
 
Nick Chater is Professor of Behavioural Science at 
Warwick Business School. He has particular interests in 
the cognitive and social foundations of rationality, and 
applying behavioural insights to public policy and 
business. Nick is Co-founder and Director of Decision 
Technology Ltd, a research consultancy.  
 
The Committee 
8
Professor Piers Forster 
Piers Forster is Director of the Priestley International Centre 
for Climate and Professor of Physical Climate Change at 
the University of Leeds. He has played a significant role 
authoring Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC) reports, and has a coordinating lead author role for 
the IPCC’s sixth assessment report.  
Dr Rebecca Heaton FICFor 
Rebecca Heaton is responsible for Drax Group’s efforts 
to mitigate climate change, ensuring that sound science 
underpins climate change polices and business strategy. 
She is also responsible for developing sustainability and 
climate change research programmes. Rebecca has a 
20-year global career working at the interface between
business, science and policy.
Paul Johnson CBE 
Paul Johnson is Director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies 
and a visiting professor at University College London (UCL). 
He is widely published on the economics of public policy, 
and he co-wrote the ‘Mirrlees review’ of tax system design. 
He was previously Chief Economist at the Department for 
Education (2000 to 2004). 
Professor Corinne Le Quéré CBE FRS 
Corinne Le Quéré is Royal Society Research Professor of 
Climate Change Science at the University of East Anglia 
(UEA), where she conducts research on the interactions 
between climate change and the carbon cycle. 
Corinne is currently the Chair of the French Haut Conseil 
pour le Climat. 
9
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Acknowledgements 
3 
Foreword 
3 
The Committee 
7 
Executive summary 
11
Chapter 1 – Introduction and key messages 
35
1. The Net Zero challenge
38 
2. Context – uncertain and urgent times
40 
3. COP26 and international leadership
42 
4. Using scenarios to identify a balanced path to Net Zero
43 
Part 1: The path to Net Zero 
Chapter 2 – The UK path to Net Zero 
57
1. The Balanced Pathway to Net Zero for the UK
60 
2. Alternative pathways to Net Zero by 2050
77 
3. Can the UK achieve Net Zero significantly before 2050?
87 
Chapter 3 – Sector pathways to Net Zero
93
1. Surface transport
96 
2. Buildings
109 
3. Manufacturing and construction
125 
4. Electricity generation
134 
5. Fuel supply
148 
6. Agriculture and land use, land-use change and forestry
163 
7. Aviation
176 
8. Shipping
182 
9. Waste
187 
10. F-gases
194 
11. Greenhouse gas removals
197 
204
1. Opportunities to reduce emissions
208 
2. Pathways for Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish emissions
216 
3. Implications for targets
228 
4. Costs and benefits in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
231 
5. Recommendations for policy
233 
Chapter 4 – Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero
10
Chapter 5 - Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
237
1. Background to assessing economic implications
241 
2. Capital investment and operational savings
243 
3. Annualised resource costs during the transition
254 
4. Macroeconomic impacts
266 
5. Co-impacts along the path to Net Zero
271 
Chapter 6 – A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero
278
1. Jobs and the Just Transition
282 
2. Competitiveness
291 
3. Fuel poverty, energy bills and other household costs
295 
4. Fiscal circumstances
304 
Part 3: International and scientific circumstances 
Chapter 7 – The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement
313
1. Reflecting the Paris Agreement in our scenarios
317 
2. Is the Balanced Pathway a fair and ambitious contribution?
322 
3. Supporting global efforts to reduce emissions
333 
4. Reducing the UK’s carbon footprint
344 
Chapter 8 – Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget
351
1. The fundamentals of the physical science basis remain strong
355 
2. Updated understanding of the climate system
359 
3. Global CO2 budgets as a guide for mitigation pathways
367 
4. Minimising the UK’s future contribution to climate change
372 
5. The need to adapt to a changing climate
377 
Part 4: Recommendations 
Chapter 9 – The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero
384
1. Delivering on the Paris Agreement
389 
2. Supporting the recovery and maintaining momentum
391 
3. Making progress in every sector in the 2020s
394 
4. Why the recommendation does not require faster progress
408 
Chapter 10 – Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget
412
1. The Sixth Carbon Budget level and emissions accounting
416 
2. Nationally Determined Contribution for 2030
428 
3. Increasing effort during existing carbon budgets
430 
4. Traded-sector emissions and UK emission trading system cap
436 
5. Next steps: A Net Zero plan and monitoring of progress
440 
Part 2: Impacts of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
11 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
13 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
We recommend that the UK sets a Sixth Carbon Budget to require a reduction in 
UK greenhouse gas emissions of 78% by 2035 relative to 1990, a 63% reduction from 
2019. This will be a world-leading commitment, placing the UK decisively on the 
path to Net Zero by 2050 at the latest, with a trajectory that is consistent with the 
Paris Agreement. It should be accompanied by a similarly ambitious 2030 pledge, 
to reduce emissions by at least 68% from 1990, as part of the UK’s nationally 
determined contribution (NDC) to the UN process.* 
 
Our recommended budget would achieve well over half of the required emissions 
reduction to 2050 in the next 15 years (Figure 1). This early action is vital to support 
the required increase in global ambition, especially ahead of the UK hosting the 
next UN climate talks (i.e. COP26 in Glasgow). It can feasibly be achieved at low 
overall cost and would bring multiple benefits and opportunities for the UK. 
• 
A leading offer from the UK. While many countries have followed the UK in 
adopting Net Zero as a long-term emissions target, global ambition to 2030 
remains far short of what is required. As President of the next UN climate 
talks (and of the G7) in 2021, the UK is in a position to influence others, but 
to do so must itself adopt an ambitious 2030 goal. Reducing emissions early 
matters as it is global cumulative emissions that drive climate outcomes. 
• 
A feasible path for the UK. Meeting the budget requires average annual 
reductions in UK emissions of 21 MtCO2e, similar to those achieved since 
2012 (19 MtCO2e). The analysis in this report shows this is clearly feasible, 
provided effective policies are introduced across the economy without 
delay. We estimate net costs of meeting the budget to be low, equivalent 
to less than 1% of GDP. 
• 
Benefits for the UK. Legislating our recommended budget would send a 
clear signal that the UK is open for low-carbon investment. This will help to 
encourage private investment at low cost at a time when it is needed to 
support the UK’s economic recovery from the COVID-19 health crisis. It 
could also help the UK secure competitive positions in growing global 
markets for low-carbon goods and services. The required changes would 
also deliver significant positive impacts for people in the UK in terms of 
health, well-being and the environment. 
 
Meeting our recommended budget will require a major nationwide investment 
programme, led by Government, but largely funded and delivered by private 
companies and individuals. Low-carbon markets and supply chains must scale up 
so that almost all new purchases and investments are in zero-carbon solutions by 
2030 or soon after. Investments should be made resilient to the expected impacts 
of climate change. Reduced operating costs in later years will pay back on the 
initial investment.  
 
More than ever before, future emissions reductions will require people to be 
actively involved. This need not entail sacrifices. Many people can make low-
carbon choices, about how they travel, how they heat their homes, what they buy 
and what they eat. The experience of the UK Climate Assembly shows that if 
people understand what is needed and why, if they have options and can be 
involved in decision-making processes, they will support the transition to Net Zero. 
 
 
 
 
*   Our budget recommendation (-78%) includes emissions from international aviation and shipping, but UN convention 
is to report these separately, so they are not included in our recommended NDC (at least 68%). On an equivalent 
basis (i.e. including international aviation and shipping), the 2030 NDC would be a 64% reduction relative to 1990. 
The budget requires a major 
investment programme, worth 
around £50 billion each year 
from 2030 to 2050. 
A major strengthening of UK 
policies is required. 
The Sixth Carbon Budget 
should set the UK emissions limit 
for 2033-37 at 965 MtCO2e. 
Executive summary 
14 
Fairness is also fundamental to public support and must be embedded throughout 
policy. Only a transition that is perceived as fair, and where people, places and 
communities are well-supported, will succeed. UK Government policy, including on 
skills and jobs, must join up with local, regional and devolved policy on the just 
transition. Vulnerable people must be protected from the costs of the transition. 
 
Recent UK emissions reductions have come from the transition away from coal-
fired power, which is almost complete. Future reductions must come from 
transport, industry, buildings and agriculture, as well as phasing out gas-fired 
power. There are positive lessons from power sector decarbonisation but each of 
these sectors raises different policy challenges. Policies must provide a clear 
direction to millions of people and businesses in the UK, shifting incentives to favour 
low-carbon options and tackling barriers to action.  
 
The Government has recognised the need for significant policy strengthening and 
is developing plans in all areas of UK emissions. Now plans must translate to action 
and Government must organise for the major delivery challenge of Net Zero. A 
slower path for emissions reduction, and a looser Sixth Carbon Budget, would put 
the 2050 Net Zero target at risk and reduce the scope for learning-by-doing.  
New economic opportunities would be missed and the UK’s role as President of the 
UN climate talks would be undermined.  
 
Figure 1 The recommended Sixth Carbon Budget 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis 
Notes: Emissions shown include emissions from international aviation and shipping (IAS) and on an AR5 basis, 
including peatlands. Adjustments for IAS emissions to carbon budgets 1-3 based on historical IAS emissions data; 
adjustments to carbon budgets 4-5 based on IAS emissions under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway. 
 
 
The budget would decisively 
commit the UK to the transition 
to Net Zero emissions in 2050. 
The Sixth Carbon Budget 
should cover all sources of UK 
emissions and be met through 
domestic action in the UK. 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
5-year carbon budget (MtCO2e)
Emissions including IAS 
(MtCO2e/year)
The Sixth Carbon Budget
Headroom for IAS emissions
Past carbon budgets
Active legislated carbon budgets
Historical emissions
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway
CB1  CB2  CB3  CB4  CB5   CB6          
CB6
15 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Box 1 and Box 2 set out the Committee’s recommendations. The rest of this 
summary is set out in five parts: 
1. Why the Sixth Carbon Budget is right for the climate 
2. Why the Sixth Carbon Budget is right for the UK 
3. How the Sixth Carbon Budget can be met 
4. Recommendations for action 
5. Next steps 
 
 
Box 1 
CCC recommendations on the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
• Budget level. The Sixth Carbon Budget (i.e. the legal limit for UK net emissions of 
greenhouse gases over the years 2033-37) should be set at 965 MtCO2e, implying a 
78% reduction from 1990 to 2035. 
• Budget scope. The budget should cover all greenhouse gas emissions, including those 
from international aviation and shipping, and removals of CO2 from the atmosphere 
(e.g. through afforestation or engineered removals such as bioenergy with carbon 
capture and storage). The Committee does not consider the previous approach of 
allowing ‘headroom’ for international aviation and shipping emissions to be sufficient 
given the importance of these emissions and the risk of their different treatment in UK 
legislation being seen as unfair by other sectors. 
• Domestic action. Performance against the budget should be judged based on actual 
UK emissions (net of removals), without recourse to international carbon units (often 
referred to as ‘credits’). The Government could choose to use credits to go beyond 
the budget as a greater international contribution. Emissions trading can be a useful 
policy lever to reduce actual UK emissions (net of removals) as required to meet the 
recommended budget. 
• Net Zero Strategy. We recommend that the Government legislates our recommended 
Sixth Carbon Budget as soon as possible and sets out its Net Zero plans and policies in 
the first half of 2021 (many of which have been under development since 2019) to 
deliver in full against the budget. The expected impact of policies, including those in 
early planning, should be clearly quantified and in sum be enough to meet the 
budget and the 2030 NDC. 
• Existing carbon budgets. Emissions will have to fall more quickly than required by the 
existing carbon budgets (i.e. the fourth and fifth, covering 2023-27 and 2028-32). It is for 
the Government to decide whether the existing budgets should be amended to bring 
them in line with the Net Zero 2050 target, however, the Committee does not consider 
it necessary to reset these in law. Forthcoming revisions to the UK’s emissions inventory 
will make existing carbon budgets more challenging. Once the NDC and Sixth Carbon 
Budget are set on the path to Net Zero, those will provide a clear target for UK 
emissions reduction over the coming decade.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The UK’s Net Zero Strategy 
must accelerate action to 
reduce emissions across the UK 
without delay. 
Executive summary 
16 
Box 2  
CCC recommendations on the UK’s Nationally Determined Contribution for 2030 
The UK will host the next UN climate talks – the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) – in 
Glasgow in November 2021. The period leading up to these talks is vital for increasing 
global ambition. To support that process the UK must adopt a world leading NDC that 
reflects best practice under the Paris Agreement.  
 
• Ambition on reducing emissions. The UK should submit an NDC based on the path to 
the Sixth Carbon Budget, requiring at least a 68% reduction in territorial emissions from 
1990 to 2030 (excluding emissions from international aviation and shipping, IAS, in line 
with UN convention), to be delivered through domestic action, with additional actions 
to reduce the UK’s contribution to IAS emissions.  
– This is a clear progression from the UK’s existing commitments: its expected 
effort share of the EU’s NDC (-53%), the existing Fifth Carbon Budget (-57%), 
and the expected reduction in actual emissions under the Fifth Carbon 
Budget (-61%).* 
– It would be world leading compared to existing NDCs, and amongst the 
front-runners for proposals for increased ambition. For example, if the EU 
adopts its proposed 55% reduction for 2030, our proposed NDC would be 
towards the top of the range that we estimate for the UK’s possible effort 
share had it still been a Member State. 
– It would align with the published pathways from the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for a 1.5°C goal. UK emissions would fall 
by 54% from 2010 to 2030, compared to the 45% that the IPCC identifies for 
the world as a whole.  
– It is equivalent to a 64% reduction including IAS emissions, the basis of our 
recommended Sixth Carbon Budget. 
• International aviation and shipping. While these emissions are treated separately by 
the UN, they must be addressed if the temperature goal of the Paris Agreement is to 
be met. The UK’s NDC should include clear commitments to act on emissions from 
international aviation and shipping, including both long-term and interim targets. 
• Adaptation. Even if the Paris goals are delivered in full and global temperature rise is 
limited to 1.5°C, there will be further impacts from climate change beyond those 
already occurring today. If the Paris goals are missed, the global and UK impacts will 
become much more severe. The UK needs to increase its ambition on climate change 
adaptation, as it is not prepared even for the 1.5-2°C world. The UK’s NDC should 
signal how national adaptation plans will be strengthened, as well as highlighting how 
the UK is supporting climate adaptation overseas. 
• International collaboration. The UK has been a strong contributor to international 
climate finance, recently doubling its commitment to £11.6 billion in aggregate over 
2021/22-2025/26. The UK’s NDC should highlight this commitment, along with other UK 
contributions to technology development and capacity building. 
 
1. Why the Sixth Carbon Budget is right for the climate 
 
Current NDCs submitted under the Paris Agreement are predicted to lead to 
global average temperatures rising around 3°C by 2100 compared to pre-industrial 
levels, with risks of even more severe climate outcomes. The 2015 Paris Agreement 
aims to limit warming to well below 2°C and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5°C. 
 
China, the EU, Japan and South Korea have all announced Net Zero emissions 
targets for 2050 or soon after (2060 in the case of China).  
 
 
*   The existing EU ambition is for a 40% reduction by 2030 relative to 1990; an increase to 55% is being considered. The 
fifth budget goal of -57% refers to the net carbon account, which adjusts for emissions trading in the EU Emissions 
Trading System. 
Global ambition is increasing, 
but remains insufficient, 
especially for 2030. 
The UK should include 
separate commitments on 
emissions from international 
aviation and shipping. 
An ambitious UK NDC for 2030 
is vital to help unlock greater 
global ambition. 
The NDC should also reflect 
the need for climate 
adaptation and international 
collaboration. 
17 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The US is expected to join that list in 2021. Together, Net Zero commitments by 
Parties to the Paris Agreement cover nearly 50% of global CO2 emissions and 50% 
of global GDP (around 60% and 75% with the US). Further commitments by 
businesses and cities/states demonstrate underlying support that will amplify and 
facilitate the national efforts.  
 
However, existing 2030 commitments globally do not yet match the long-term 
targets and still fall far short of what is needed to meet Paris Agreement targets. As 
host of COP26, the UK should send a clear signal that it is contributing fully to the 
Paris Agreement by setting a world-leading 2030 ambition and taking strong action 
now to move decisively onto the path to its long-term Net Zero ambition. 
 
How the Sixth Carbon Budget supports global climate action 
 
Our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget and UK NDC reflect the goals and 
requirements of the Paris Agreement, recognising the UK’s responsibility as a richer 
developed nation and its respective capabilities: 
• 
Our recommended pathway has been explicitly designed to reflect the 
UK’s ‘highest possible ambition’ within the UK’s particular capabilities, as 
required by the Paris Agreement. 
• 
It would reduce the UK’s annual per capita emissions by 2035 to under 3 
tCO2e per person, in line with global pathways consistent with meeting the 
Paris 1.5°C goal (Figure 2).  
• 
The actions required to meet the budget and NDC (including full 
decarbonisation of the power sector, full switchover to electric vehicle sales 
and installation of low-carbon heating, and roll-out of carbon capture and 
storage) would go beyond those required from the world on average 
(Table 1), in line with the UK’s responsibility as a richer nation with larger 
historical emissions. The timing of these actions would align to that required 
from other climate leaders. 
• 
Comparable action from other developed countries, with developing 
countries following slightly later (i.e. where they generally adopt low-carbon 
measures later, achieve lower percentage reductions to 2030 and reach 
Net Zero emissions after 2050) would limit warming well below 2°C. We set 
out such a ‘leadership-driven’ global pathway in this report. 
• 
We have highlighted where policies and actions have important crossovers 
with the need to adapt to climate change, which is also included as a key 
part of the long-term response to climate change in the Paris Agreement. 
 
To limit warming below 1.5°C, modelling generally suggests that all regions will 
need to follow paths close to those currently being considered in developed 
countries. Developed countries will need to play a significant role in supporting 
those efforts. If additional action to reduce emissions domestically beyond our 
recommended budget proves possible, then the UK should take that action in 
further support of the 1.5°C ambition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sixth Carbon Budget has 
been developed to support 
the required pathways for 
reducing global emissions. 
Executive summary 
18 
Figure 2 Global emissions pathways (per person) 
consistent with the Paris Agreement 
 
Source: CCC analysis. Huppmann, D, et.al. (2018) A new scenario resource for integrated 1.50C research. Nature 
Climate Change, 8 (12), 1027; Olivier, J. & Peters, J. (2019) Trends in global CO2 and total greenhouse gas emissions. 
Notes: Aggregation of greenhouse gas emissions is done using the global warming potential metric at time horizon 
of 100 years. Values from the IPCC 5th Assessment report (with climate-carbon feedbacks) are used. Minimum and 
maximum ranges are used across the global emissions scenario categories used by the IPCC Special Report on 
Global Warming of 1.50C. These figures do not include the uncertain impact of COVID-19 on 2020 emissions. 
-2.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
1990
2000
2010
2020
2030
2040
2050
2060
tCO2/person/yr
>50 %1.5°C - Range
>66% 2°C - Range
>50% 1.5°C - Median
>66% 2°C - Median
Historical - World
Historical - UK
Balanced Net Zero Pathway - UK
-2.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
14.0
16.0
18.0
1990
2000
2010
2020
2030
2040
2050
2060
tCO2e/person/yr
>50 %1.5°C - Range
>66% 2°C - Range
>50% 1.5°C - Median
>66% 2°C - Median
Historical - World
Historical - UK
Balanced Net Zero Pathway - UK
All GHG emissions (basis of the UK's targets)
CO2 only
19 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 1 
Comparison of the UK decarbonisation actions with global average pathways  
 
UK – Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Global average - 
1.5°C pathways 
Global average - 
2°C pathways 
Coal % of electricity generation – 2030 
0% (by 2024) 
8%1 
13%1 
Low-carbon % of generation – 20301 
87% 
72%1 
67%1 
Electric Vehicles % of car fleet – 2030  
43% 
20 - 40%2 
13%3 
Electric Vehicles % of car sales – 2030 
97% 
52%3 
40%3 
Average heat pump installation rate – 2030 
(heat pumps/thousand people/yr) 
15.3 
8.83 
7.73 
Low-carbon hydrogen production – 2030 (kg / 
person /yr) 
10.7 
- 
0.93 
CCS per capita – 2030 (tCO2/person/yr) 
0.32 
0.251 
0.11 
Engineered removals – 2030 (tCO2/person/yr) 
0.07 
0.041 
0.011 
 
Source: CCC analysis; 1 Huppmann, D. et al. (2018) A new scenario resource for integrated 1.5°C research. Nature Climate Change, 8 (12), 1027; 2 
Climate Action Tracker Initiative (2020) Paris Agreement Compatible Sectoral Benchmarks; 3 IEA (2020) World Energy Outlook 2020. 
Notes: The UK Government has now committed to a full phase-out of petrol and diesel cars by 2030. Electric car fleet figures here include plug-in hybrids. 
For Europe as a whole, analysis from Climate Action Tracker suggests a benchmark for EV fleets reaching 40-55%. Median figures are used for the IPCC-
SR1.5 pathways, with a wide range around these medians across the scenario ensemble. CCS is often used extensively within IPCC-SR1.5 pathways, to 
greater extents than in other global pathways (e.g. those from the IEA). Global 1.5°C pathways have ~50% probability of limiting global warming to 1.5°C 
and ‘well below 2°C’ pathways have at least 66% probability of limiting to 2°C. 
 
 
The UK’s broader carbon footprint 
 
Territorial emissions (i.e. those arising from UK sources, plus its contribution to 
international aviation and shipping) remain the right basis for the UK’s carbon 
budgets and Net Zero target. However, the UK must also reduce its consumption 
emissions (i.e. the broader impact of UK consumption including emissions 
embedded in imported goods and services), which are around 50% higher than 
our territorial emissions. If UK territorial emissions are reduced to Net Zero and UK 
trading partners reduce their emissions in line with the Paris Agreement, then we 
estimate that UK consumption emissions would be around 90% below 1990 levels in 
2050. 
 
The Committee will continue to scrutinise progress on consumption emissions 
alongside territorial emissions and advise on policies that reduce both. We will 
monitor consumption emissions against a Paris-aligned trajectory in our future 
annual Progress Reports to Parliament. UK industries should face a level playing 
field under the UK’s ambitious targets. Reducing emissions in the UK must not be at 
the expense of exporting jobs and emissions overseas. 
• 
A level playing field should be easier to sustain now that around 50% of the 
UK’s imported emissions are from territories due to be covered by Net Zero 
targets. Together with the UK’s target, this means Net Zero targets for mid-
century cover around 75% of UK consumption emissions. 
• 
Policy has a key role to play, including Exchequer support for low-carbon 
solutions in trade-exposed industries at risk of lost competitiveness, 
production standards (i.e. regulating for both UK production and imports to 
meet tightening emissions standards) and border carbon tariffs1 (for which 
work should start now by developing better metrics of carbon-intensity and 
building an international consensus on their role). These should be 
considered in new trade agreements. 
 
 
Our recommended budget is designed to be met by reducing UK sources of 
emissions, not by displacing them to other markets. Some of the actions involved 
(e.g. resource efficiency and more generally reduced reliance on imported fossil 
fuels) will bring additional reductions in the UK’s imported emissions. 
The UK should reduce 
consumption emissions as well 
as territorial emissions. 
Executive summary 
20 
 
2. Why the Sixth Carbon Budget is right for the UK 
 
The economic context for the Sixth Carbon Budget 
 
When the Committee recommended the UK’s Net Zero target for 2050, we 
demonstrated that any negative economic impact was likely to be small and the 
overall impact could turn out to be positive. Our analysis of the full pathway to Net 
Zero for this report reinforces that finding. An ambitious budget is preferable to an 
unambitious one, given the range of risks and costs from unchecked climate 
change, and in some cases could even cut costs (e.g. with an earlier switch to 
electric vehicles). 
 
The economic and social context for climate action has changed in important 
ways since the UK set its Net Zero 2050 target: 
• 
The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response to it have sharply 
changed the economic backdrop in the UK and globally. In the UK, 750,000 
payroll jobs have been lost (with millions more supported by the Jobs 
Retention Scheme), GDP has fallen (e.g. by 9% from August 2019 to August 
2020) and business investment has dropped by around a quarter despite 
record low interest rates. These effects imply considerable spare capacity in 
the economy and therefore that increasing investment could support the 
UK’s recovery.  
• 
The new Net Zero commitments by countries and businesses clearly 
demonstrate momentum building towards more climate action. This should 
drive down low-carbon technology costs that themselves can enable 
further commitments to action. These commitments are a demonstration 
that future markets lie with low-carbon products. Business models that are 
not compatible with a Net Zero future are increasingly risky.  
• 
Costs of key low-carbon technologies have continued to fall. For example, 
the contracted price for electricity generated by offshore wind fell again in 
the latest auction round by around a third compared to the previous 
auction two years earlier. These cost reductions are driven by scale 
manufacturing, investor confidence and ‘learning-by-doing’ during 
deployment within an effective low-risk policy framework. These effects can 
be replicated in other areas of the economy, as markets scale up globally 
and the costs of low-carbon technologies continue to fall. 
 
This background favours a decisive transition for the UK, quickly switching resources 
away from high-carbon activity and into low-carbon investments with lower 
operating costs than high-carbon alternatives. This is reflected in our proposed 
pathway, which transitions as rapidly as possible within constraints of stock 
turnover, supply chain capacity and time required to design effective policy.  
 
Investment and cost estimates 
 
The Balanced Pathway to deliver our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget involves 
a large sustained increase in investment, adding around £50 billion annually by 
2030 (compared to current economy-wide investment of nearly £400 billion).  
The largest increases are for low-carbon power capacity, retrofit of buildings and 
the added costs of batteries and infrastructure for electric vehicles. 
 
This required increase in investment can, and should, be delivered largely by the 
private sector. It is well within the range of historical changes in UK total investment.  
 
Costs of low-carbon 
technologies continue to fall. 
Low-carbon investment can 
support the economic 
recovery. 
21 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
The sectoral increases have broadly been seen before, for example, in the 
transport sector as car-buyers shifted towards larger cars, in the power sector as 
renewable investment increased in the last decade, and in the housing sector as 
spending on refurbishments increased. It can be financed at low cost if policies are 
constructed to give long-term clarity to consumers and confidence to investors. 
 
We are now able to demonstrate that savings in fuel costs (Figure 3) will offset the 
investment cost in later years. As a result, our estimate of the annualised resource 
cost (which measures the net additional cost each year to deliver the same 
services with lower emissions) has fallen to less than 1% of GDP through to 2050. This 
is a reduction since our 2019 estimate for the Net Zero 2050 target, reflecting our 
more detailed modelling and the falling costs of low-carbon technologies. 
 
This added resource cost will not necessarily reduce GDP by an equivalent 
amount, particularly given the spare capacity following the pandemic. Modelling 
commissioned for this report suggests that the level of UK GDP would be around 2% 
higher than it would have been by 2035 as resources are redirected from fossil fuel 
imports to UK investment. 
 
 
Figure 3 Capital investment costs and operating  
costs savings in the balanced pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Costs of electricity are included in the energy supply sector, whereas costs of other low-carbon fuels such as 
hydrogen and bioenergy are included in sectors that use these fuels. ‘M&C’ is manufacturing and construction. 
‘Other’ category includes aviation, shipping, land-use, land-use change and forestry, agriculture, removals, waste 
and F-gases. CAPEX refers to additional annual capital investment. OPEX refers to savings due to operational cost 
reductions. 
 
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
£billion/yr
Surface transport OPEX
Buildings OPEX
Electricity supply OPEX
M&C / Fuel supply OPEX
Other OPEX
Surface transport CAPEX
Buildings CAPEX
Electricity supply CAPEX
Networks CAPEX
M&C / Fuel supply CAPEX
Other CAPEX
By 2050, savings in operating 
costs are likely to be larger 
than investment requirements. 
Executive summary 
22 
Broader impacts 
 
While costs are small overall, they could be large for particular people, sectors or 
areas. The risk of localised impacts should be a key focus for the Government. 
 
Our proposed pathway will require new jobs to be filled, as the need for other jobs 
is reduced. With the right policies in place, our proposed pathway can be 
delivered without adding further costs to energy bills and with limited impacts on 
the public finances. Significant positive impacts on health and the environment are 
expected. 
• 
Jobs and the Just Transition. Our pathway involves considerable 
opportunities for job creation. For example, the programme to retrofit 
buildings alone would require over 200,000 extra full-time workers in that 
sector from 2030 through to 2050.2 An important challenge for Government 
is to identify where jobs may be lost (for example in oil and gas extraction 
and refining) and to support workers to transition to being a part of the new 
low-carbon workforce (e.g. in carbon capture and storage), whether within 
companies undergoing their own transitions or beyond.  
• 
Energy bills. A national investment programme is needed to decarbonise 
the UK’s homes fully, at an average investment of less than £10,000 per 
home, over the next 30 years.3  This can be achieved with practical policy 
design and some Exchequer funding. The plan can be implemented 
without large increases in consumers’ energy bills, especially as the savings 
from low-cost renewables begin to be reflected in consumer bills. Indeed, 
policy can be designed to ensure that vulnerable customers benefit from 
lower energy bills, given the lower operating costs resulting from 
improvements in energy efficiency of homes and heating systems. Motorists 
stand to see significant cuts in the costs of driving as they shift to electric 
vehicles.  
• 
Public finances. Given a small overall economic impact, and the 
expectation for the private sector to finance most of the transition, the 
overall impact on public finances should be limited. However, the 
Government will need to find a way to replace lost revenues from road fuel 
duty and vehicle excise duties, for example by shifting to a road charging 
regime. Carbon taxes are an important part of the policy toolkit and could 
raise revenues during the Net Zero transition. The priorities we identify in this 
report for Exchequer support imply around a doubling in annual public 
funding to £9-12 billion by 2030, depending on policy choices. 
• 
Health and environment. There is a host of health and environmental 
benefits attached to the Net Zero transition. More walking and cycling and 
less carbon-intensive diets can improve health, as can cleaner air and 
better insulated homes (e.g. the annual cost to the NHS of poor-quality 
housing in England alone has been estimated at over £1 billion). 4 
Restoration of peatlands and planting of woodlands can improve access 
to green space and, done well, can provide new income streams for 
farmers, improve the natural environment, support biodiversity and improve 
adaptation to the impacts of climate change. 
 
The required investment programme can provide a significant economic boost in 
the coming years and support the UK’s economic recovery. These benefits may 
well persist into the longer-term and could grow if new zero-carbon technologies 
continue to develop rapidly and provide spill-overs to other sectors.  
The path to Net Zero brings 
many opportunities for job 
creation. 
Impacts on energy bills and 
the public finances can be 
managed with good policy 
design. 
The path to Net Zero has 
considerable co-benefits for 
health and the environment. 
23 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
At worst the size of the economy would be similar to that expected without climate 
action, but with valuable co-benefits. Negative impacts can be avoided with 
effective policy, which must be decisive and provide confidence to investors. 
 
Why the budget is right for Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland 
 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland together cover a fifth of UK emissions. They 
have an integral role to play in delivering the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget on the path 
to Net Zero. For Scotland and Wales, this will be achieved under long-term targets 
passed in Holyrood and the Senedd Cymru. Northern Ireland is considering 
introducing its own climate legislation.  
 
The challenges and solutions to tackling greenhouse gas emissions are broadly 
similar across the UK. The respective contributions made by each part of the UK will 
depend, at least in part, on the relative importance within their economies of 
particular types of emitting activity (e.g. agriculture, industry) and opportunities for 
removing CO2 from the atmosphere through natural or engineered solutions. 
 
UK climate targets cannot be met without strong policy action across Scotland, 
Wales and Northern Ireland, tailored for national, regional and local needs: 
• 
While some important policy levers are held in Westminster, powers are fully 
or partially devolved in most key areas, including encouraging shifts to 
walking, cycling and public transport; providing electric vehicle charging 
points; improvements to the efficiency and comfort of the building stock 
and heating in homes off the gas grid; agriculture and land use; waste; 
carbon trading; and public provision of education and training. Northern 
Ireland also has wider devolved powers over energy networks. 
• 
The frameworks in Wales and Scotland are ahead of the rest of the UK in 
emphasising the importance of the potential health and environment 
benefits, and the need for a just transition. Wales’ Wellbeing of Future 
Generations Act and Scotland’s Just Transition Commission will be 
important in ensuring this. 
• 
Even where the main policy levers are held by the UK Government, 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland can take action through 
complementary measures at the devolved level (e.g. provision of 
additional incentives, public engagement, and supporting policies such as 
planning and consenting). 
 
We will shortly publish two joint reports reflecting on progress towards meeting 
Wales’s existing climate targets and giving new recommendations on the level of 
Wales’s Third Carbon Budget (2026-2030) and other emissions reduction targets 
including the 2050 target. 
 
In parallel with this advice, the Committee has written to the Scottish Government 
and the Northern Ireland Executive to give further advice on meeting and setting 
climate targets.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting the Sixth Carbon 
Budget will help Scotland, 
Wales and Northern Ireland 
meet their own ambitions. 
Executive summary 
24 
3. How the Sixth Carbon Budget can be met 
 
UK territorial emissions in 2019 were 522 MtCO2e, 41% below 1990 levels.* UK GDP 
grew by over 75% over the same period. Emissions primarily result from the burning 
of fossil fuels (mostly oil and gas) to run vehicles, heat buildings, produce electricity 
and in industry and agriculture. Further emissions arise from industrial and 
agricultural processes, changes in land use, waste disposal and leakage from 
various sources. 
 
Net Zero requires a transformation across these areas. No single solution or single 
sector can meet the budget alone; action is required across all areas and all 
sectors, without delay. The 2020s are the crucial decade: with effective action 
starting now, by 2030 the UK will be firmly on track to Net Zero.  
 
A large part of meeting Net Zero is a technological and investment challenge. But 
it also requires a fundamental response from people: as consumers, workers, 
homeowners, tenants and landlords, motorists, farmers, citizens and families. 
Government should lead that response and will have most success where its 
proposals are seen to be fair and where people have been involved in developing 
the proposed solutions. The UK Climate Assembly provided useful insights on the 
priorities of a representative cross-section of the UK population. These priorities are 
reflected in this report.  
 
Scenarios for the path to Net Zero 
 
At the core of our advice for this report are multiple scenarios exploring the actions 
required in each area and every year in order to reduce UK emissions to Net Zero 
by 2050 at the latest. The detailed scenarios explore uncertainties, particularly over 
how far people will change their behaviours, how quickly technology will develop 
and the balance between options where credible alternatives exist. 
 
All the scenarios are ambitious while bounded by realistic assumptions over the 
speed at which low-carbon technologies can be developed and rolled out, 
allowing time for supply chains, markets and infrastructure to scale up. They are 
self-consistent and recognise other priorities – for example, our energy analysis 
maintains security of supply, our housing analysis considers the need for flood 
protection and to avoid over-heating, our land analysis supports the natural 
environment.  
 
Based on the insights of these scenarios, we have developed a Balanced Pathway 
as the basis for our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget and the UK’s NDC. The 
Balanced Pathway makes moderate assumptions on behavioural change and 
innovation and takes actions in the coming decade to develop multiple options 
for later roll-out (e.g. use of hydrogen and/or electrification for heavy goods 
vehicles and buildings). While it is not a prescriptive path that must be followed 
exactly, it provides a good indication of what should be done over the coming 
years. 
 
 
 
* Throughout this report our figures for UK emissions include those from international aviation and shipping (45 MtCO2e 
in 2019). We also incorporate expected changes to the UK emissions accounts to reflect higher estimates for 
emissions from peatlands and higher global warming potentials (GWP) proposed by the IPCC (and agreed at the 
UNFCCC) for non-CO2 greenhouse gases. As a result, our estimate for UK emissions in 2019 is a further 42 MtCO2e 
higher than in the UK’s official inventory. Box 2.1 in Chapter 2 sets out more details on these issues. 
People have a vital role in 
delivering Net Zero and the 
Sixth Carbon Budget. 
The Committee has used 
scenarios to identify a 
Balanced Pathway to Net 
Zero, which forms the basis of 
the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
25
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Reducing emissions to 2035 
Meeting the Sixth Carbon Budget requires action across four key areas in line with 
those from our Balanced Pathway (Figure 4, Table 2): 
•
Reducing demand for carbon-intensive activities.
– Reduced demand. Around 10% of the emissions saving in our 
Balanced Pathway in 2035 comes from changes that reduce demand 
for carbon-intensive activity. Particularly important in our scenarios are 
an accelerated shift in diets away from meat and dairy products, 
reductions in waste, slower growth in flights and reductions in travel 
demand. While changes are needed, these can happen over time 
and overall can be positive for health and well-being.
– Improved efficiency. A further 5% comes from improving efficiency, in 
use of energy and resources, especially by better insulation of 
buildings, improving vehicle efficiency and improving efficiency in 
industry.
•
Take-up of low-carbon solutions. Over half the emissions saving is from 
people and businesses adopting low-carbon solutions as high-carbon 
options are phased out (Table 3). By the early 2030s all new cars and vans 
and all boiler replacements in homes and other buildings must be low-
carbon – we expect largely electric. By 2040 all new heavy goods vehicles 
should be low-carbon. Industry must either adopt technologies that use 
electricity or hydrogen instead of fossil fuels or install carbon capture and 
storage.
•
Expansion of low-carbon energy supplies.
– Low-carbon electricity. Low-carbon electricity can now be produced 
more cheaply than high-carbon electricity in the UK and globally.
– In our Balanced Pathway the low-carbon share increases from 50%
now to 100% by 2035, cutting UK emissions by 18% compared to our 
baseline. New demands from transport, buildings and industry
(moderated by improving energy efficiency) mean electricity 
demand rises 50% to 2035, doubling or even trebling by 2050. The 
largest contribution is from offshore wind, reaching the Government’s 
goal of 40 GW in 2030, on a path to 65-125 GW by 2050.
– Low-carbon hydrogen scales up to 90 TWh by 2035 (i.e. nearly a third 
of the size of the current power sector), produced using electricity or 
from natural gas or biomass with carbon capture and storage. It is 
used in areas less suited to electrification, particularly shipping and 
parts of industry, and is vital in providing flexibility to deal with 
intermittency in the power system. It may also have a material longer-
term role in buildings and other transport, such as heavy goods 
vehicles.
•
Land (and removals). A transformation is needed in the UK’s land while 
supporting UK farmers. By 2035 our scenarios involve planting of 440,000 
hectares of mixed woodland to remove CO2 from the atmosphere as they 
grow, with a further 260,000 hectares of agricultural land shifting to 
bioenergy production (including short rotation forestry). This would see UK 
woodland cover growing from 13% now to 15% by 2035. Peatlands must be 
restored widely and managed sustainably. Low-carbon farming practices 
must be adopted widely, while raising farm productivity. 
The largest contribution is from 
mass take-up of low-carbon 
solutions, powered by a major 
expansion of low-carbon 
electricity and hydrogen 
supplies. 
Changes in the UK’s land use 
are also needed. 
Lower-carbon choices and 
efficiency can make a 
material contribution to 
meeting the budget. 
Executive summary 
26
Alongside the nature-based removals, by 2035 the UK should be using 
bioenergy (largely grown in the UK) with CCS to deliver engineered 
removals of CO2 at scale. 
The Balanced Pathway (Figure 5) sees the most rapid emissions reductions over 
2025-2035. Before 2025, newer markets (e.g. for electric vehicles and low-carbon 
heating) are still scaling up from low levels, so potential for large-scale roll-out and 
therefore rapid emissions reductions is more limited.  Beyond 2035 some 
opportunities have been exhausted, so progress slows down (e.g. the power sector 
reaches zero emissions by 2035).  
Figure 4 Types of abatement in the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: ‘Other low-carbon technology’ includes use of bioenergy and waste treatment measures.  
‘Producing low- carbon electricity’ requires the use of CCS in electricity generation. 
Emissions fall fastest over 2025-
2035, when all options can be 
used at large scale. 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Reduce demand
Improve efficiency
Low-carbon solutions: electrification
Low-carbon solutions: hydrogen and other low-carbon technology
Low-carbon solutions: CO₂ capture from fossil fuels and industry
Produce low-carbon energy
Offset emissions using land and greenhouse gas removals
Outturn and baseline
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
27 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
Executive summary 
28 
Table 3 
Phase-out dates of high-carbon activities under the Balanced Pathway  
Technology/behaviour 
Phase out date (sales) 
Backstop date (operation) 
New fossil-fuelled cars  
and vans 
2032 (including plug-in hybrids) 
2050 
Gas boilers 
 
2033 (in residential homes) 
2030-33 (in commercial properties) 
2050 
Oil boilers  
2028 (in residential homes) 
2025-26 (in commercial properties) 
2050 
Gas power generation (unabated) 
2030 
(no new build of unabated gas plants) 
2035 
HGVs 
2040 
Beyond 2050 
Biodegradable waste sent to 
landfill 
N/A 
2025 ban on all municipal & 
non-municipal 
biodegradable waste going 
to landfill 
Unabated energy-from-waste 
plants 
From today, new plants and extensions should 
be built with CCS or CCS ready 
2050 
 
 
Figure 5 Sectoral emissions under the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: LULUCF = Land use, land-use change and forestry 
 
 
 
Different sectors decarbonise 
at different rates, reflecting the 
relative opportunities. 
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Annual emissions
-90
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
Change 2019 - 2035
Surface transport
Electricity supply
Manufacturing & construction
Buildings
Fuel supply
Removals
Waste
Agriculture
F-gases
LULUCF (sources and sinks)
Aviation
Shipping
29 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
4. Recommendations for action 
 
Delivering the actions required in the 2020s to meet the Sixth Carbon Budget 
requires policies to be strengthened now. Matching strong ambition with action is 
vital for the UK’s credibility, with business and with the international community. 
Action in early years underpins the transition by developing options and driving 
learning-by-doing in key technologies. It keeps open the possibility that if faster 
progress proves possible it can be taken, in further support of the global 1.5°C goal. 
 
A vital challenge is to ensure that the transition is fair, and perceived to be fair. 
That was a key theme from the recent UK Climate Assembly, and it is clear that 
engaging and involving the public in the transition and in policy design will be vital. 
The Treasury Net Zero Review must identify fair ways to share the costs and benefits 
of the transition and the Government must develop effective plans for a just 
transition while embedding the principle of fairness throughout policy. Plans should 
recognise interactions with other transformations, such as digitalisation. Place and 
skills will be key dimensions to consider, so it is vital that UK Government policy joins 
up well with local, regional and devolved policy on the just transition. 
 
We identify priorities for every sector of the economy, building on our detailed 
recommendations in our June Progress Report.  
• 
Surface transport (22% of 2019 emissions).5 A comprehensive policy 
package will be needed to deliver on the Government’s new commitment 
to phase out new sales of petrol and diesel cars and vans by 2030, 
including ensuring that plug-in hybrids play no more than a niche role by 
then. A further commitment should be made to phase out sales of diesel 
heavy goods vehicles no later than 2040, supported by large-scale trials in 
the near term. Recharging and refuelling infrastructure will need to develop 
to meet the range of emerging needs. Effective demand-side policy is also 
essential – we identify significant opportunities, and advantages, to 
reducing travel demand, but this will not happen without firm policies.  
• 
Industry (20%). For the manufacturing, construction and fuel supply 
industries, the Government must move from the current piecemeal 
approach to a comprehensive transition support framework. Taxpayer 
funding will be key in early years to ensure industries stay internationally 
competitive while reducing emissions. The development of longer-term 
policies, such as border carbon tariffs or carbon standards, should begin 
immediately, for example through development of improved measurement 
of carbon-intensity. Policy must tackle both the demand-side and supply-
side for low-carbon products and ensure relevant infrastructure is available. 
• 
Buildings (17%). Government must produce a robust and ambitious Heat 
and Buildings strategy which sets the direction for the next decade, with 
clear signals on the phase-out of fossil heating, rebalancing of policy costs 
between electricity and gas, commitments to funding and delivery plans 
which include regional and local actors. Our Balanced Pathway is 
underpinned by clear timetables for standards to make all buildings energy 
efficient and ultimately low-carbon. The other priorities are rapidly to scale 
up supply chains for heat pumps and heat networks and to develop the 
option of hydrogen for heat. Proper enforcement of standards, including 
avoiding overheating risks, and an effective approach to skills are essential.  
• 
Electricity generation (10%). Low-risk instruments like the auctions of 
renewable contracts should continue to support the scale-up of low-
carbon generating capacity. Policy should address barriers to the major 
scale-up required, for example by supporting the coordination of 
connections from offshore windfarms into the onshore network and greatly 
Only a just transition will be 
successful. 
Policy throughout the 
economy must be clear, 
effective and fair. 
Executive summary 
30 
strengthening the UK’s power grid. Following on from the 2024 coal phase-
out, gas-fired power without CCS should be phased out by 2035. Work to 
improve markets for the provision of flexibility must accelerate to 
accommodate the increasing shares of variable power. 
• 
Low-carbon hydrogen. The Government’s Hydrogen Strategy is due to be 
published in spring 2021. It will need to set out a vision for hydrogen’s role in 
meeting Net Zero in the longer term, together with the actions, regulations 
and incentives across end-use applications and hydrogen supply to 
develop hydrogen’s role over the next decade.  
• 
Agriculture (10%) and land (net source of 2%). We set out detailed 
recommendations on policy for land and agriculture in January 2020. These 
must be implemented in a way that is fair to farmers. The priorities remain: a 
strengthened regulatory baseline to ensure low-regret measures are 
adopted; incentive schemes such as auctioned contracts to drive 
afforestation; and enabling measures to address issues such as skills, supply 
chains and barriers for tenant farmers. Policy design must account for the 
challenges of the changing climate and reflect wider environmental 
priorities, including for biodiversity, to harness potential synergies and avoid 
unnecessary trade-offs. Policies are also needed to cut food waste and 
encourage a reduction in consumption of meat and dairy. 
• 
Aviation (7%) and shipping (3%). The UK will need strategies to reduce its 
emissions from aviation and shipping to Net Zero. It should help drive 
international processes (through ICAO and the IMO)6 to strengthen 
ambition in line with Net Zero. Policy should also provide early-stage 
development support for engineered CO2 removals, sustainable fuels and 
more efficient, including electrified, craft. Steps should be taken to limit 
aviation growth in line with our scenarios. 
• 
Waste (6%) and F-gases (3%). Waste policy should include a ban on 
landfilling biodegradable waste by 2025, with recycling increasing to 70% 
by 2030. More policies are needed through the chain from manufacturing 
to the consumer to reduce the amount of waste. All energy-from-waste 
plants should fit CCS by 2050. F-gas regulations already require reduction of 
some F-gas sources; plans will need to extend to all sources. 
• 
CO2 removal. A full strategy is needed for CO2 removal, covering both 
nature-based and engineered options. It should cover initial development 
and demonstration, governance arrangements to ensure sustainability and 
that removals are permanent, and possible routes to market development 
to support the scale-up required from the late 2020s. 
 
Net Zero and the Sixth Carbon Budget present a major coordination and delivery 
challenge. The Government must organise itself and its agencies to meet that 
challenge. The two Cabinet Committees for Climate Action – the Strategy 
Committee chaired by the Prime Minister and the Implementation Committee 
chaired by the BEIS7 Secretary of State – are an important element of that, but 
stronger governance and coordination will be needed, with delivery processes 
reaching out across all levels and localities of Government, across borders, and 
across UK businesses and people.  
 
The Committee will continue to offer its support to developing the Government’s 
policy programme, and those of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and will 
scrutinise proposals carefully and transparently. The Committee has set out 
detailed views on the policy priorities in a separate Policy report published 
alongside this report.8 
 
Government must organise 
at all levels to meet the major 
delivery challenge of Net 
Zero. 
Aviation and shipping should 
be included in the Sixth 
Carbon Budget and must be 
tackled alongside all other 
emissions. 
31 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
5. Next steps 
 
In the days following this advice, the Government must communicate its NDC to 
the UN. That should be a world-leading commitment, in line with the Committee’s 
advice. Ambitious goals on reducing emissions should be accompanied by a 
promise also to increase action on adaptation, which is a key theme of the Paris 
Agreement and an increasingly urgent priority given the continued changes in the 
climate that can be expected even if the Paris Agreement goals are met. 
 
The Government must then set the Sixth Carbon Budget in law by the end of June 
2021. This must be followed, as soon as is practicable, by a set of policies and 
proposals that demonstrably would meet the budget. We recommend that both 
these steps are taken without delay, in the first half of 2021. 
 
Such prompt action would demonstrate the UK’s climate credentials as President 
of COP26 and would give confidence to businesses looking to invest and make 
their own Net Zero transitions. It is necessary given the scale and speed of change 
required.  
 
We expect to report on the Government’s strategies in our next annual Progress 
Report in June 2021. 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
This report represents an extensive programme of analysis, consultation and 
consideration by the Committee and its staff, building on the extensive evidence 
published last year for our Net Zero advice. This includes: our public Call for 
Evidence; 10 new research projects; three expert advisory groups on health, 
finance and policy for Net Zero; policy roundtables on heating buildings, electricity 
market design and phase-out of unabated gas, digitalisation, greenhouse gas 
removals and low-carbon industry; detailed datasets and deep dives into the roles 
of local authorities and businesses.  
 
The outputs of our work are published on our website (www.theccc.org.uk) and 
explained in the five parts (10 chapters) of this report and its accompanying Policy 
report and  Methodology report.9 
• 
Part 1: The path to Net Zero sets out the scenarios that underpin our advice 
and that demonstrate how the Sixth Carbon Budget can be met: overall 
(Chapter 2), sector by sector (Chapter 3) and for Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland (Chapter 4). 
• 
Part 2: Impacts of the Sixth Carbon Budget sets out (in Chapter 5) our 
estimates of the costs, investments and potential economic impact of the 
budget, and (in Chapter 6) the need for a just transition, including 
implications for jobs, competitiveness, energy bills and the public finances. 
• 
Part 3: International Circumstances and Climate Science sets out how our 
recommendations represent a fair and ambitious contribution to the Paris 
Agreement, including consideration of the UK’s broader contribution to 
tackling climate change beyond UK territorial emissions, including the UK’s 
overseas consumption emissions (Chapter 7). Chapter 8 sets out the 
relevant climate science that underpins our advice. 
• 
Part 4: Recommendations sets out why our recommended pathway 
reduces emissions more quickly before 2035 than after 2035 (Chapter 9) 
and our full recommendations relating to the Sixth Carbon Budget (Chapter 
10). 
 
 
The Government should 
legislate the Sixth Carbon 
Budget and set out quantified 
plans to meet it within 6 
months. 
Executive summary 
32 
Figure 6 Sixth Carbon Budget: A snapshot 
 
 
 
33
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 7 Sixth Carbon Budget: Report map 
Denotes 
chapter with 
sector-
specific 
material
Chapter 2: 
The UK path to 
Net Zero
Chapter 3: 
Sector pathways 
to Net Zero
Chapter 9: 
The shape of the 
emissions path 
Chapter 5: 
Investment, costs 
and benefits 
Chapter 6: 
A just transition to 
Net Zero 
Chapter 7: 
Contribution to 
the Paris 
Agreement 
Chapter 8: 
Scientific context
Chapter 10: 
Recommendation
s on the budget
Chapters 2-11: 
Sector policies for 
the 2020s
Chapter 4: 
The path to Net 
Zero for Scotland, 
Wales & Northern 
Ireland
PART 1:  
The path to Net Zero 
PART 2:  
Impacts of the 6th 
Carbon Budget 
PART 3: International 
& Scientific 
Circumstances 
PART 4:  
Budget 
Recommendations 
POLICY REPORT: 
Policies for the Sixth 
Carbon Budget & 
Net Zero
Themes within 
the advice 
Budget level 
Inclusion of 
emissions from 
international 
aviation & 
shipping 
Carbon units 
Supporting 
evidence 
METHODOLOGY 
REPORT
Chapter 1: 
The overarching 
policy framework
Chapter 1: 
Approach to the 
6CB analysis
Cross-cutting 
policy 
recommendations 
Sector-specific 
policy 
recommendations
Advice 
Report
Targets for 
Scotland, 
Wales and 
Northern 
Ireland
How we 
determine the 
Sixth Carbon 
Budget: 
Emissions 
pathways
Costs and 
benefits of 
climate action 
The UK’s 
contribution to 
the global 
effort
Consumption 
emissions 
Just transition 
The role of 
business, and 
local action 
Competitiveness 
Fiscal impacts 
The role of 
finance 
Public 
engagement 
Energy bills 
Choices 
around how 
we 
decarbonise 
Emissions trading 
& use of credits 
Behaviour 
change 
International 
climate finance 
International 
aviation & 
shipping 
The Sixth 
Carbon Budget 
Dataset 
containing all 
the numbers 
and detail 
behind the 
advice 
Sector specific 
methodology 
chapters for:
Surface 
transport, 
Buildings, 
Manufacturing 
& 
construction, 
Fuel supply, 
Electricity 
generation, 
Agriculture & 
Land Use, 
Aviation, 
Shipping, 
Waste, 
F-gases, 
GHG removals 
gas removals.
16 Committee 
meetings to 
scrutinise analysis, 
3 independently 
chaired expert 
advisory groups 
on Health, 
Finance and 
Policy 
Open call for 
evidence with 
177 responses 
from businesses, 
academics, 
society groups 
and individuals 
15 roundtables 
across power, 
manufacturing, 
transport, land use, 
digitalisation and 
greenhouse gas 
removals 
New work on the 
roles for business and 
local authorities in 
delivering the Sixth 
Carbon Budget and 
Net Zero 
Independent research on: 
•
UK’s international climate 
influence, 
•
heat in buildings, 
•
energy efficiency in
buildings, 
•
low-carbon industry, 
•
industry policy, 
•
heavy goods vehicles, 
•
land use, 
•
low-carbon hydrogen
•
macro-economic
modelling. 
Executive summary 
34 
1 Border carbon tariffs impose a carbon tax at the border on imported products based on their 
embedded emissions, or carbon footprint. By matching the border carbon tariff to domestic 
carbon taxes imposed in the UK, a level playing field can be provided. 
2  CITB (2020) Building Skills for Net Zero (draft report). 
3 See Chapter 3 of this report. 
4  Nicol S. et al. (2015), The cost of poor housing to the NHS.  
5 Quoted emissions percentages refer to those used in this report, with adjustments from the UK’s 
official inventory to reflect upcoming changes for peatland emissions and Global Warming 
Potential (GWP) estimates. They are as a proportion of a total that includes international 
aviation and shipping. For some sectors (agriculture, land use, waste, F-gases, aviation and 
shipping) the latest available estimates are used, from 2018. Energy-from-waste emissions are 
reported within the waste sector. 
6 The International Civil Aviation Organisation and the International Maritime Organisation. 
7 BEIS = The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. 
8  CCC (2020) Policies for Net Zero and the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
9 CCC (2020) The Sixth Carbon Budget – Methodology Report. 
 
 
35 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction and key messages 
 
 
1. The Net Zero challenge 
38 
2. Context – uncertain and urgent times 
40 
3. COP26 and international leadership 
42 
4. Using scenarios to identify a balanced path to Net Zero 
43 
 
 
37 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction and key messages 
 
The Sixth Carbon Budget sets the limit on allowed UK territorial greenhouse gas 
emissions over the period 2033 to 2037. It is our duty under the Climate Change Act 
to advise on it by the end of 2020, following which it must be legislated by the 
middle of 2021. 
 
Our advice on the Sixth Carbon Budget builds on our Net Zero advice from May 
2019, but goes much further:  
• 
This is the first carbon budget to be set on the path to the UK’s Net Zero 
target for 2050, which was placed in law in summer 2019. Whereas the Net 
Zero advice focused on the end point, this advice looks at the whole 
pathway and effectively provides the trajectory for emissions over the 
coming three decades on the way to Net Zero. 
• 
We have gone beyond the ‘proof of concept’ Further Ambition scenario 
presented in our Net Zero advice, to look at different ways of achieving Net 
Zero. We present five Net Zero scenarios, which explore how developments 
in behavioural and societal change and in technology may affect the path 
over the next three decades. 
 
This advice comes at a critical juncture – the opportunity is there for the UK to 
provide international leadership in the run up to COP26, while also driving a resilient 
recovery through the low-carbon investments that will get us on track to Net Zero. 
 
We introduce our advice in five sections: 
1. The Net Zero challenge 
2. Context – uncertain and urgent times 
3. COP26 and international leadership 
4. Our approach – using scenarios to identify a balanced path to Net Zero 
5. Requirements of the Climate Change Act 
 
 
 
This advice effectively sets the 
path for emissions on the way 
to Net Zero. 
We have explored five 
different ways of getting to 
Net Zero. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
38 
1. The Net Zero challenge 
In May 2019, the Committee recommended that the UK increase ambition under 
the Climate Change Act to require greenhouse gas emissions to reach Net Zero by 
2050. The Net Zero target requires deep reductions in all sources of emissions, with 
any remaining sources offset by removals of CO2 from the atmosphere (e.g. by 
afforestation). Net emissions, after accounting for removals, must be reduced by at 
least 100%, to zero. 
 
The Government accepted this advice and legislated in June 2019 to make Net 
Zero 2050 a legal requirement. 
 
When advising on the target, the Committee was clear that increasing ambition 
under the legislated targets had to be accompanied by a step-change in climate 
policy to get on track towards meeting Net Zero. 
• 
Net Zero is a different challenge from the previous 2050 target for at least 
an 80% reduction in emissions – all UK emissions must be tackled, without 
reliance on offsets from elsewhere. It is not sufficient to simply reduce 
emissions – where zero-carbon options exist these must be deployed (for 
example, in homes and in manufacturing). 
• 
The public need to be involved – over half the emissions reductions we 
identified to reach Net Zero actively involve people, whether by choosing 
to purchase low-carbon technologies like electric cars, or by making 
different choices, for example on their travel and diets. 
• 
Delivering Net Zero will involve costs and benefits, employment and fiscal 
effects, and reinvention for many businesses. It must be a central influence 
over our recovery from the COVID-19 economic crisis. Investment for Net 
Zero is a solid basis for economic renewal.  
 
We have begun to see the consultations, policies and strategies that show that the 
Government is taking the Net Zero policy challenge seriously.  
 
This advice explores a range of ways to achieve Net Zero by 2050. In advising on 
the Sixth Carbon Budget, the Committee has focused in particular on what they 
mean for the shape of the emissions trajectory and how they perform against the 
criteria set out by the Climate Change Act (see section 5). 
 
We have developed scenarios that cut emissions rapidly as demanded by the 
climate science, but also ones that provide clarity for businesses to support 
investment, that contribute to future-proofed good-quality jobs while smoothing 
the transition for current high-carbon industries, that unlock health and well-being 
benefits, and that support a positive position for the UK in the world. 
 
Our recommended ‘Balanced Net Zero Pathway’ is the basis of our advice on the 
level of the Sixth Carbon Budget. It reduces emissions by 2035 to 78% below 1990 
levels, including the UK’s share of international aviation and international shipping 
(IAS) emissions (Figure 1.1). This equates to a 63% reduction on 2019 emissions, by 
when emissions had already fallen around 40% since 1990. 
 
This Balanced Net Zero Pathway is set out in Chapters 2 and 3. It was built on 
multiple lines of evidence, and takes into account what is feasible over time and 
what is necessary to get on track to Net Zero by 2050.  
We recommend a budget 
that means a 78% reduction 
across all emissions by 2035. 
This budget means a step-
change in climate policy, 
starting now. 
39 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
We assess it to be a fair pathway that is compatible with global efforts to limit the 
rise in global average temperature to well below 2°C and to pursue efforts to limit 
warming to 1.5°C. It would reduce per-capita emissions in the UK by 2035 to the 
global average level from the median of the IPCC’s pathways for limiting warming 
to 1.5°C with a 50% probability.  
 
The first five carbon budgets are already legislated to 2032, the end of the Fifth 
Carbon Budget period. However, this advice looks at the full path for emissions to 
Net Zero by 2050 at the latest.  
 
Figure 1.1 The recommended Sixth Carbon  
Budget 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis 
Notes: Emissions shown include emissions from international aviation and shipping (IAS) and on an AR5 basis, 
including peatlands. Adjustments for IAS emissions to carbon budgets 1-3 based on historical IAS emissions data; 
adjustments to carbon budgets 4-5 based on IAS emissions under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway. 
 
All emissions data presented in this report account for forthcoming changes to the 
UK Greenhouse Gas Inventory for Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) and for 
peatlands. These changes have not been precisely determined yet, so we assume 
changes at the higher end of the currently estimated range. All values reported 
use GWPs from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth 
Assessment Report (AR5) with carbon-cycle feedbacks and we assume 
accounting for all peatland emissions adds around 21 MtCO2e/year to the current 
UK inventory (Box 2.1). These changes will be implemented within the next five 
years. 
 
This advice resets the path for 
emissions out to 2050. 
The new path also means a 
stronger reduction in emissions 
by 2030 than previously 
required. 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
5-year carbon budget (MtCO2e)
Emissions including IAS 
(MtCO2e/year)
The Sixth Carbon Budget
Headroom for IAS emissions
Past carbon budgets
Active legislated carbon budgets
Historical emissions
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway
CB1  CB2  CB3  CB4  CB5   CB6          
CB6
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
40 
2. Context – uncertain and urgent times 
The Climate Change Act requires the Committee to advise by the end of 2020 on 
the level of the Sixth Carbon Budget. It is crucial to set that budget now to get the 
UK on track as soon as possible towards meeting its statutory Net Zero target by 
2050 and meeting our commitments under the Paris Agreement. That is particularly 
important this year, as the UK will host the next UN climate talks (the 26th 
Conference of the Parties: COP26) in Glasgow in November 2021. 
 
Our advice on the Sixth Carbon Budget and the path to Net Zero comes at a time 
of heightened uncertainty due to the impacts of COVID-19, but with widespread 
public support for climate action and a major opportunity for low-carbon 
investment to be at the heart of the recovery and support UK leadership 
internationally: 
• 
The COVID-19 context. The pandemic is a public health crisis with tragic 
consequences for many. It brings uncertainty for the future, but also shows 
how rapidly things can change when necessary and highlights the role of 
investment in driving economic recovery. The period ahead is therefore an 
opportunity to make rapid progress.  
– The steps that the UK takes to rebuild from the COVID-19 pandemic 
and its economic damage can also accelerate the transition to low-
carbon activities and improve our climate resilience. Climate 
investments can support the economic recovery and secure good 
jobs for the long term, while taking advantage of low interest rates. 
– The pandemic has also demonstrated how quickly social change can 
occur, and the role of Government in driving that change. As we set 
out in this advice, social and behavioural change can make a very 
important contribution to meeting Net Zero.  
– Setting a carbon budget during the COVID-19 pandemic brings with it 
the risk that the projections we have used for the level and nature of 
economic activity in the UK are significantly out of line with the reality 
that emerges as we recover from its impacts. Due to major uncertainty 
over how the recovery will play out, our analysis has assumed no 
lasting impact to the UK’s level of economic (and potentially emitting) 
activity – this means that if anything, we understate the rate at which 
emissions could fall over the next decade and a half. 
• 
The Brexit context. As we establish a new trading relationship with the EU 
and leave the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and other mechanisms, 
it makes sense to move to setting and judging our carbon budgets on the 
basis of actual UK emissions in all sectors. Clarity and confidence will be 
valued, and well-designed climate policy should provide investment 
opportunities across a range of sectors (Box 1.1). Nonetheless, coherence 
with the wider trading system of the EU ETS is important. 
The policy context. Following the legislation of the Net Zero target in 2019, 
the Government has rightly been accelerating the development of 
strategy and policy. We welcome the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan for a 
Green Industrial Revolution. It remains urgent to align the policy framework 
with the raised ambition under Net Zero, and for a Net Zero strategy to be 
published prior to COP26. Our recommended budget requires a policy 
framework that enables investment and delivery to be ramped up with 
immediate effect. 
The context for our advice is 
one of uncertainty and 
strengthening climate action. 
41 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
The climate context. During 2020, we have continued to see the impacts of 
climate change that are already here, both in the UK and globally. 
Atmospheric CO2 concentrations are at record levels, and compound risks 
are building. As the UK prepares to host COP26, ambition is growing 
internationally, with a wave of Net Zero targets now being set, and 
updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) for 2030 are 
expected as we approach COP26.  
• 
The social context. There is widespread public support for action to tackle 
climate change, although without enough clarity so far over the steps that 
are needed to do so. The Climate Assembly has given us a valuable insight 
into the public’s preferences over how we meet Net Zero. 
 
Box 1.1 
The impact of Brexit on the UK’s climate objectives 
The UK’s departure from the European Union will have implications for the UK’s 
environmental and decarbonisation policy. Key implications include:  
• Leaving the EU’s Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). Current Government proposals are 
to replicate this scheme, with a smaller UK ETS, with a view to linking to the EU ETS. A 
carbon tax has also been proposed. 
• Product standards set at an EU level have been an important driver of energy 
efficiency, and emissions reductions in lights, appliances and vehicles.  
• Leaving the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which provides direct income support 
for farmers, as well as payments for environmental services. The UK’s replacement 
scheme, Environmental Land Management (ELM), aims to transition to rewarding 
farmers more for public goods including mitigating and adapting to climate change.  
• The Office for Environmental Protection replaces the role of the European Commission 
in enforcing environmental regulations. Once established, in 2021, its role will also 
include climate change.   
As we noted in 2016, in areas where EU mechanisms are working effectively – such as 
product standards, which reduce emissions and save consumers money, or targets for 
waste reduction - the UK should aim to replicate them at UK level. Some areas, such as 
leaving the Common Agricultural Policy, present an opportunity to better target public 
funds towards environmental goals.  
 
Source: CCC (2016) Meeting Carbon Budgets – Implications of Brexit for UK climate policy 
 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
42 
3. COP26 and international leadership 
In November 2021, less than a year after the publication of this report, the UK will 
host in Glasgow the next round of UN climate talks: the 26th Conference of the 
Parties (‘COP26’). COP26 represents an important milestone in the UN process, with 
parties to the Paris Agreement expected to update and increase their 
commitments on tackling climate change.  
 
The process of increasing commitments has already begun, with several major 
economies setting new goals to reach Net Zero emissions around mid-century. 
Commitments from China, the EU, Japan and South Korea cover nearly half of 
global emissions. The further commitment expected by the US would extend 
coverage to around 60%. 
 
However, to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement, emissions must not only reach 
Net Zero, they must do so rapidly, with deep reductions to 2030. That puts a 
particular focus on the next decade and the UK’s commitments as host of COP. 
 
The UK will have to submit its ambition to 2030 in its own nationally-determined 
contribution (NDC) to the UN process, due by the end of 2020. We make 
recommendations on the UK’s NDC in this report, based on the same Balanced 
Pathway used for our recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
The UK’s choices over the NDC and the Sixth Carbon Budget will affect its 
credibility as a climate leader, and will set an important context for commitments 
by other countries. To support the large increase required in global ambition, 
particularly in the period to 2030, the UK’s new commitments must be suitably 
ambitious and aligned to the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
 
We reflect that need in this report, in part by ensuring that our scenarios reflect the 
UK’s highest possible ambition, as required by Article 4 of the Paris Agreement. We 
also consider, in Chapter 7, the various other elements of the Paris Agreement 
besides the UK’s direct reductions in emissions. For example, Chapter 7 covers the 
UK’s consumption emissions, the role of climate finance and trade agreements. 
 
Delivering a positive outcome from the COP26 climate talks is key to the world’s 
efforts to tackle climate change and to protecting the UK from the worst impacts 
of climate change. It will be underpinned by a clear and rapid acceptance of the 
advice in this report, and by decisively strengthening policy to deliver our 
recommended Sixth Carbon Budget and NDC on the path to Net Zero. 
 
We recommend the UK’s 
‘NDC’ is set on the same path 
as the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
Our recommendations are 
consistent with the 
requirements of the Paris 
Agreement. 
43 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
4. Using scenarios to identify a balanced path to Net Zero 
We have developed scenarios for this report to explore a range of ways to 
achieve Net Zero by 2050 at the latest, and used those exploratory scenarios to 
identify a ‘Balanced Pathway’ towards Net Zero that keeps in play a range of 
ways of getting there based on central assumptions. 
 
Our scenarios demonstrate that there are multiple ways to meet the Net Zero 2050 
target and many routes to our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget. While our 
Balanced Pathway is the basis for our recommended budget it is not intended to 
be prescriptive. Rather it is illustrative of what a broadly sensible path based on 
moderate assumptions would look like. A little more or a little less may be achieved 
in any area, or alternative low-carbon options could be used, but the overall level 
of ambition and delivery must match. 
 
This section sets out that approach in three parts:  
a) The value of using scenarios to set a path to Net Zero 
b) Our ‘exploratory’ scenarios to reach Net Zero 
c) A Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
 
a) The value of using scenarios to set a path to Net Zero 
 
A key design feature of the Climate Change Act is that legislation of the budget 
level leaves free a choice about how this is to be delivered. It is the responsibility of 
Government then to determine how the budget will be met. 
 
In our 2019 advice on setting the Net Zero target, we presented a single (‘Further 
Ambition’) scenario for 2050 (Box 1.2) – this acted as a ‘proof of concept’, 
providing confidence that Net Zero can be achieved at reasonable cost without 
relying on major breakthroughs in technologies and behaviours.  
 
In this year’s advice, we have developed three exploratory scenarios that reach 
Net Zero emissions by 2050 in quite different ways, illustrating the range of 
pathways that are currently available. We also present a further, highly optimistic, 
scenario that enables Net Zero to be achieved prior to 2050. This allows exploration 
of a range of approaches over the next three decades. 
 
We use these scenarios to guide judgements on the achievable and sensible pace 
of decarbonisation in the face of uncertainty, and to understand how less success 
in one area can be compensated for elsewhere. The scenarios are also useful for 
monitoring progress subsequently (see section 5 of Chapter 10). 
 
Box 1.2 
The Committee’s 2019 Further Ambition scenario 
In determining our 2019 advice on whether the UK could reach Net Zero emissions by 
2050, we developed a Further Ambition scenario as a snapshot of sources and sinks of 
emissions in the UK by 2050 (Figure B1.2). This scenario was specific about how 96% of the 
emissions reductions could be achieved, compared to emissions in 1990, but noted that 
multiple options were available for achieving the last 4% of emissions reductions, including 
additional engineered removals, further innovation and further behaviour change. 
  
Our scenarios explore different 
ways of getting to Net Zero. 
We go beyond our 2019 
Further Ambition scenario, 
which underpinned the Net 
Zero advice. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
44 
For the purposes of costing the scenario we assumed the remaining 4% of emissions 
reductions were delivered via emissions removals at £300/tCO2, making them one of the 
most expensive emissions reduction options in our scenarios.  
 
This year’s analysis includes our recommended pathway to meet the Sixth Carbon 
Budget, the ‘Balanced Pathway’. Key differences between this and last year’s Further 
Ambition scenario include:  
• Behaviour change plays a larger role our new scenarios. For example, the Balanced 
Pathway includes a 35% reduction from today’s levels of meat consumption, up from 
20% in the Further Ambition scenario.   
• Lower residual emissions in several sectors, such as aviation, manufacturing and 
construction, buildings and electricity and hydrogen production, due to more 
ambitious assumptions on technology costs and innovation.  
• Lower use of fossil fuels, particularly for power and hydrogen production. This sees gas 
demand fall by around 75% (compared to just 30% in last year’s analysis). This is largely 
replaced by increased offshore wind which is used to produce electricity and 
electrolytic hydrogen. 
• Higher levels of peatland restoration and tree-planting increase land use sinks. 
Overall, this means that less engineered removals are required, reducing the overall cost 
of the scenarios (see Chapter 5). 
 
Figure B1.2 Emissions in 2050 in the Further 
Ambition scenario and Balanced Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis based on CCC (2019) Net Zero, and the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
 
45 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) Our exploratory scenarios to reach Net Zero 
 
Our 2019 Further Ambition scenario made relatively conservative assumptions on 
the extent of cost reductions as a result of innovation, and on societal and 
behavioural change. Making conservative assumptions was appropriate in the 
context of setting the target, as it was important to ensure a legally binding target 
could be met. But in the context of achieving Net Zero, and setting a pathway to 
match, we must consider how success can be maximised on these fronts. 
 
Greater contributions from societal/behavioural change and from innovation 
would reduce the challenges in achieving Net Zero emissions by 2050, by reducing 
emitting activities (e.g. flying, livestock farming) and making emissions reduction 
cheaper and/or easier. The Government should therefore ensure that policy 
frameworks are designed in a way that encourages both behavioural change and 
innovation to contribute strongly to decarbonisation.  
 
However, even with well-designed policies, it remains uncertain how large a 
contribution each will make. Our scenarios therefore reflect potential ranges for 
their contributions, together with the sets of choices (e.g. on HGVs and low-carbon 
heat) that are necessary in this decade. 
• 
Societal and behavioural change across all scenarios illustrates how 
choices by people and businesses can affect emissions. In many cases 
these align with the findings of the recent Climate Assembly (Table 1.2).  
• 
Innovation. The costs and efficiencies of low-carbon technologies varies in 
our scenarios, according to the latest available evidence and projections 
for these technologies.  
• 
Choices are also prevalent in our scenarios, where the clearest low-carbon 
option is not currently evident. For example, in some scenarios hydrogen 
takes the place of electrification in HGVs and in some home heating. 
Similarly, our scenarios also try to reflect preferences, such as a preference 
for nature-based removals over engineered removals in the Widespread 
Engagement scenario, or the use of synthetic fuels in aviation instead of 
only offsetting aviation emissions via emission removals. 
 
As a general principle, consistent with the preferences expressed in the Climate 
Assembly,1 our pathways prioritise emissions reductions where known solutions exist 
and thereby minimise the use of greenhouse gas removals. This will tend to lead to 
lower overall cumulative UK emissions and limit risks of over-reliance on being able 
to deploy removals sustainably at scale. 
 
We initially constructed three ‘exploratory’ scenarios that reach Net Zero by 2050, 
one of which is similar to Further Ambition while the other two are more optimistic 
either on developments regarding behavioural change or improvements in 
technology costs and performance (Figure 1.2). Although to some extent these 
reflect choices on the way to Net Zero, they primarily reflect greater or lesser 
degrees of success on key policy priorities on the path to Net Zero – engagement 
of the public and businesses, and innovation:  
• 
In the Headwinds scenario, we have assumed that policies only manage to 
bring forward societal/behavioural change and innovation at the lesser 
end of the scale, similar to levels assumed in our 2019 Further Ambition 
scenario. People change their behaviour and new technologies develop, 
but we do not see widespread behavioural shifts or innovations that 
significantly reduce the cost of green technologies ahead of our current 
projections. This scenario is more reliant on the use of large hydrogen and 
carbon capture and storage (CCS) infrastructure to achieve Net Zero 
Exploring how to meet Net 
Zero means looking at bolder 
assumptions on behaviour and 
innovation. 
When setting the Net Zero 
target, we erred on the side of 
caution. 
Our scenarios also explore 
choices around how to reach 
Net Zero. 
Our pathways use known 
solutions where they exist and 
minimise use of greenhouse 
gas removals. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
46 
• 
In the Widespread Engagement scenario, we assume higher levels of 
societal and behavioural changes. People and businesses are willing to 
make more changes to their behaviour. This reduces demand for the most 
high-carbon activities and increases the uptake of some climate mitigation 
measures. Assumptions on cost reductions are similar to Headwinds. 
• 
In the Widespread Innovation scenario, we assume greater success in 
reducing costs of low-carbon technologies. This allows more widespread 
electrification, a more resource- and energy-efficient economy, and more 
cost-effective technologies to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. Assumed 
societal/behavioural changes are similar to Headwinds. 
 
We then constructed the ‘Balanced Net Zero Pathway’, as a further scenario that 
reaches Net Zero by 2050. It was designed to drive progress through the 2020s, 
while creating options in a way that seeks to keep the exploratory scenarios open 
(see subsection (c) below). We also constructed a further exploratory scenario 
(‘Tailwinds’) that assumes considerable success on both innovation and societal / 
behavioural change and goes beyond the Balanced Pathway to achieve Net 
Zero before 2050. 
 
Figure 1.2 Scenario framework for the analysis 
in this report 
 
 
While these scenarios are designed to have self-consistent narratives, there is some 
potential to ‘mix and match’ strategies or compensate for under-delivery in one 
area with greater delivery elsewhere based on another scenario. Our sectoral 
analysis takes a ‘bottom-up’ approach which allows a detailed assessment of the 
options that are most relevant to each source of emissions within each sector.  
 
The methodology used for each sectoral analysis is described in the 
accompanying Methodology Report.2  
 
Our scenarios allow for both the impacts of climate change (e.g. rising global 
temperatures reduce UK heating demand) and the need to adapt to those 
impacts (e.g. we include shading and ventilation measures alongside insulation). 
This is particularly important for the buildings and land use sectors.  
Our Balanced Pathway 
navigates through the range 
of possibilities we have 
identified. 
Our analysis contains many 
paths, with various different 
shapes. 
47 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
In the process of developing five scenarios for the UK, we have produced a total of 
70 sectoral pathways* for the UK (Figure 1.3). We have taken steps to ensure that 
each of the sectoral scenarios represents a coherent picture at the economy-wide 
level (Box 1.3), including what happens to infrastructure and operation of the 
electricity system (Table 1.1). 
 
Figure 1.3 The five economy-wide scenarios are 
constructed from 70 individual scenarios for  
action across every sector of the economy 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Each individual line represents the path for new abatement in a sector between 2020 (effectively zero) and 
by 2050 where all sectors reach a level of abatement that is consistent with the UK getting to Net Zero. Not all 
sectors will get to zero emissions. Abatement in the fuel supply sector is greater in the 2030s than by 2050. 
 
Box 1.3 
Developing self-consistent scenarios for each sector of the economy 
In developing the scenarios, we have made efforts to ensure they are self-consistent: 
• The residual emissions in each sector have been aggregated to obtain the level of 
total UK emissions, ensuring that the decarbonisation of energy carriers that are used 
in multiple sectors (e.g. electricity, hydrogen, bioenergy) is accounted for once and 
once only. 
• Aggregated energy demand across all sectors is a key input to our analysis of the 
production, transportation and consumption of low-carbon electricity, hydrogen, fossil 
fuels, waste and bioenergy.  
 
 
*   These sectoral pathways are disaggregated further into 280 pathways for Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and the 
rest of the UK. 
We have tried to ensure that 
each of the scenarios 
represents a coherent view of 
a possible future. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
48 
• We have considered the overall use of biomass so that it does not exceed limits that 
we judge could be sustainably sourced and available to the UK in the next 30 years. 
• We have considered the shared use of infrastructure across sectors, including specific 
areas of the gas grid and the co-location of industrial carbon capture and storage 
with hydrogen production and bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS).  
• CO2 capture requirements are aggregated across all sectors to investigate the scale 
of storage required for the UK.  
• We have drawn on findings from our extensive use of energy system models to date 
and incorporated them into this analysis.  
• Each sectoral scenario uses a shared set of assumptions about the future, including 
economic and demographic factors such as the growth rate of the economy, 
population growth and energy prices. 
 
 
 
 
*   Shown for residential users. Larger users are assumed to receive a discount on the wholesale electricity price. 
Table 1.1  
Summary of key differences in the economy-wide scenarios 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
 
Diet change 
35% 
reduction in 
all meat and 
dairy by 2050 
20% 
reduction in 
all meat and 
dairy by 2050 
50% reduction 
in all meat and 
dairy by 2050 
50% reduction in 
all meat and dairy 
by 2050 
50% reduction in all 
meat and dairy by 2050 
Airport 
terminal 
passengers 
365m in 2050 
365m in 2050 
245m in 2050 
438m in 2050 
245m in 2050 
Tree-
planting 
rates 
50,000 
ha/year from 
2035 
30,000 
ha/year from 
2025 
70,000 ha/year 
from 2035 
50,000 ha/year 
from 2030 
70,000 ha/year from 
2035 
Wholesale 
electricity 
cost*  
2035: 
£60/MWh  
2050: 
£50/MWh  
2035: 
£65/MWh   
2050: 
£60/MWh  
2035: 65/MWh   
2050: 
£55/MWh  
2035: £55/MWh   
2050: £40/MWh  
2035: 60/MWh   
2050: £35/MWh  
Natural gas 
grid 
Hydrogen 
grid 
conversion 
trials in 2020s. 
 
Patchwork lar
ge-scale 
conversions 
start from 
2030 near 
industrial 
clusters.  
 
Some buildin
gs in those 
areas switch 
to hydrogen.  
 
Conversion 
continues to 
2050.  
 
Hydrogen  
grid 
conversion  
trials  
In 2020s.  
 
Large-scale 
conversions 
start from 
2030 around 
industrial 
clusters and 
radiate out at 
10 km/yr.  
 
20% of homes 
on gas grid 
with 
hydrogen by 
2035.  
Gas grid not 
converted to 
hydrogen.  
 
Full 
electrification 
in buildings. 
 
Industry 
hydrogen 
sourced via 
private 
pipelines.   
Hydrogen grid conversion trials in 2020s.  
 
Large-scale conversions start from 2030 around 
industrial clusters and radiate out at 10 km/yr.   
 
Most buildings within radius convert to 
hydrogen.  
 
After 2035 no further buildings convert – 
further radial expansion beyond 2035 only 
applies to parts of grid to supply some 
industrial users.  
 
49 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
c) A Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
The multiple scenarios we present in this advice provide an illustration of the various 
ways that we can pursue emissions reductions on a path to Net Zero. However, the 
implied flexibility on how to deliver it does not mean the near-term path is unclear.  
Many steps can be taken with confidence in the next decade and should begin 
immediately. Our ‘Balanced Net Zero Pathway’ is informed by the range of 
solutions across the ‘exploratory’ scenarios, that would put the UK on track to Net 
Zero and would meet the recommended carbon budget. This pathway: 
• 
Represents a sensible strategy to underpin policy on over the coming years, 
based on known technologies and behaviours, with potential to be 
adapted as we learn more about the most effective ways to cut emissions 
(see the Policy Report). 
• 
Takes a whole-system approach to decarbonisation, reflecting the range of 
opportunities across behaviour, efficiency, land, low-carbon energy supply 
and end-use technologies, and how these potentially interact.  
• 
Develops key options for decarbonisation in the 2030s and 2040s, with 
action in the 2020s, accepting that some things will not work but that it is 
necessary to try things out to find the best options and develop effective 
policies. 
• 
Includes some measures that are not cost-effective when considering only 
emissions reductions, where they support other objectives (e.g. some 
higher-cost improvements to energy efficiency of homes, due to benefits to 
fuel poverty, health and employment). 
• 
Is designed to be delivered in a way that works for people – reflects their 
priorities and choices, and aligns very well to the preferences expressed by 
the Climate Assembly,3 which was called by six Select Committees of the 
House of Commons to understand public views on how the UK should 
tackle climate change (Table 1.2). 
• 
Works in the real world and at the local level, providing good quality jobs, 
and benefits to health and wellbeing. 
• 
Allows time for societal choices to contribute and the necessary scale-up of 
supply chains, skills, business models and infrastructure during the 2020s. 
• 
Puts the UK on track to Net Zero, and supports the required global path for 
decarbonisation (see Chapter 7) by reflecting the highest possible ambition 
on emissions reduction as a necessary contribution the Paris Agreement. 
 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway is plausible based on our assessment. An 
alternative strategy that delivers the same emissions reductions in different ways, 
with less in one area compensated by more elsewhere, would also meet the 
recommended budget. Our wider set of scenarios illustrate different pathways that 
could help to achieve the budget and get on track to meeting Net Zero (see 
subsection b) above). However, there is a series of actions that need to be taken 
now, irrespective of the choices that we make later, and a continuing programme 
to be fulfilled if those later choices are to remain open. More generally, the need 
to act on climate change and to reach Net Zero emissions is now widely 
recognised in businesses.  
 
Many UK businesses have set their own Net Zero goals and stand ready to transition 
to the new technologies, behaviours and business models required.  
In that context, the most positive economic strategy is to proceed with ‘highest 
possible ambition’, as required by the Paris Agreement. 
In our assessment, the 
Balanced Pathway is right for 
the climate and for the UK. 
The Balanced Pathway is 
challenging but feasible. 
Business will be key in 
delivering the Sixth Carbon 
Budget. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
50 
A bold strategy to get the UK on the path to Net Zero is required, with immediate 
action based on available solutions and active development of new ones, while 
accepting that we can’t know how every aspect of the transition will play out. But 
that need not imply locking in every aspect of the transition – there is clear benefit 
to an adaptable strategy that can be adjusted as we learn more about the most 
effective ways to cut emissions. 
 
1 
Table 1.2 
How the CCC’s scenarios compare to the recommendations of the Climate Assembly 
Sector 
Climate Assembly recommendations 
Range in CCC scenarios 
Transport 
• A ban on the sale of new petrol, diesel and hybrid 
cars by 2030–2035. 
• A reduction in the amount we use cars by an 
average of 2–5% per decade. 
• 2030-2035 switchover date for EVs. 
• Up to 5-11% of car-km switch to 
alternative modes of transport. 
Buildings 
• At least 80% of assembly members ‘strongly agreed’ 
or ‘agreed’ that each of hydrogen (83%), heat 
pumps (80%), and heat networks (80%) should be 
part of how the UK gets to net zero. 
• Supportive of energy efficiency: slight preference for 
upgrading each home all in one go (56%), 
compared to upgrading each home gradually 
(44%). 
• Scenarios are led by electrification via 
heat pumps or hybrid heat pumps. 
Hydrogen features in Headwinds 
scenario. 
• All scenarios include district heating. 
• Energy efficiency in over half of 
homes by 2035. 
Electricity 
supply 
• Members were highly supportive of wind and solar 
(80-90% in favour). 
• Only 40% of assembly members agreed that 
bioenergy should be used to produce electricity 
(even if producing negative emissions).  
• Support was lower for nuclear (34%) and fossil fuels 
with carbon capture and storage (22%).  
• Wind and solar provide 75-90% of 
electricity. 
• Some bioenergy is used to produce 
electricity, transitioning to BECCS. 
• Nuclear and power generation with 
CCS provide 10-25% of electricity. 
Aviation 
• Assembly members would like to see a solution to air 
travel emissions that allows people to continue to fly. 
• But not without limits, promoting an acceptable 
balance between achieving the net zero target, 
impacts on lifestyles, reliance on new technologies, 
and investment in alternatives. 
• Flying ranges between a 15% fall and 
50% increase on pre-COVID-19 levels, 
matching popular Climate Assembly 
scenarios. 
• Low-carbon fuels in all scenarios, 
providing 20-95% of fuel by 2050. 
Agriculture 
& Land 
Use 
• A change in diet to reduce meat and dairy 
consumption by between 20% and 40%. 
• Highly supportive of nature-based removals, seen as 
‘natural’ and having significant co-benefits (99% in 
favour of afforestation, 80-85% peatland restoration 
and wood in construction, but lower (60%) for 
enhancing soil carbon).  
• 20-50% reduction in all meat and dairy 
consumption by 2050. 
• High ambition on tree-planting (30-70 
kha per year) and peatland 
restoration. Enhanced soil not 
included. 
• Some focus on more biodiversity in the 
people scenario. 
Emissions 
removals 
• Members were less supportive of DACCS and BECCS 
(40%) with significant concern over the permanence 
of CO2 storage and that they are treated as a 
‘magic solution’ which doesn’t get to the crux of the 
problem (reducing emissions).  
• BECCS included at scale (45-95 
MtCO2/year by 2050) in all scenarios. 
DACCS included at 0-15 MtCO2/year.  
 
 
Source: CCC analysis based on Climate Assembly UK (2020) The path to net zero. 
Notes: The Climate Assembly did not consider emissions reductions associated with manufacturing and construction, fossil fuel supply, shipping or F-
gases.   
 
This is the best strategy we 
have now – as we do more, 
we will learn more about what 
works. 
51 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
5.  Our approach to advice on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
This report is based on an extensive programme of analysis, consultation and 
consideration by the Committee and its staff, building on the evidence published 
last year for our Net Zero advice. That programme has addressed the requirements 
set out for the Committee in the Climate Change Act.  
 
It aims to set a platform to support the UK Government in taking confident 
decisions on the budget and the actions required to deliver it. Doing so can fulfil 
the UK’s commitments on climate change, support investment and job creation by 
businesses in the UK, deliver on priorities of UK citizens and support the UK’s positive 
place in the world. 
 
The outputs of the work, including our public Call for Evidence, several new 
research projects, three expert advisory groups, detailed datasets and deep dives 
into the roles of local authorities and businesses, are published on our website 
(www.theccc.org.uk) and explained in the four parts of this report and its 
accompanying Methodology and Policy Reports. 
 
a) The requirements of the Climate Change Act 
 
The Climate Change Act requires the Committee to provide advice on the Sixth 
Carbon Budget by the end of 2020. The Government is then required to legislate 
the carbon budget by the end of June 2021, and to produce proposals and 
policies to meet it ‘as soon as is reasonably practicable’ thereafter. 
 
The carbon budget must be set with a view to meeting the 2050 target, which is 
now set in legislation as an emissions reduction of ‘at least 100%’ (i.e. Net Zero). 
 
In recommending carbon budgets, the Committee is required by the Act to take 
into account a range of considerations. These are designed to ensure that action 
to tackle climate change contributes fully to the global effort, while supporting 
other Government objectives. Below we outline these considerations, and where 
within the report they are addressed: 
• 
Scientific knowledge about climate change. We set out in Chapter 8 the 
updated state of knowledge on the science of climate change, which 
remains similar to that when providing the advice on Net Zero. 
Considerations relating to cumulative emissions inform our assessment for 
the appropriate shape of the emissions path on the way to Net Zero 
(Chapter 9). 
• 
Technology relevant to climate change. Our scenarios, set out in Part 1 of 
the report (i.e. Chapters 2 and 3), take into account the potential roles, 
costs and interactions between the various technologies that can help to 
reduce emissions. One of these, the Balanced Net Zero Pathway provides 
the basis for our recommended level for the carbon budget. 
• 
Economic circumstances, and in particular the likely impact of the decision 
on the economy and the competitiveness of particular sectors of the 
economy. Quantitative and qualitative assessments of the economic 
transition through the Sixth Carbon Budget on the path to Net Zero are set 
out in Part 2 of the report (i.e. Chapters 5 and 6). Competitiveness is 
addressed both within our scenario design and specifically in Chapter 6.  
We have considered all of the 
aspects required by the 
Climate Change Act. 
The Sixth Carbon Budget can 
be the platform for a step-
change in climate action. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
52 
• 
Fiscal circumstances, and in particular the likely impact of the decision on 
taxation, public spending and public borrowing. Part 2 addresses the costs 
and investment requirements of the transition, and what choices over how 
to fund decarbonisation might mean for the Government’s fiscal position. 
• 
Social circumstances, and in particular the likely impact of the decision on 
fuel poverty. We consider a range of social circumstances in Part 2 of the 
advice, including fuel poverty, impact on employment and health co-
benefits. Our scenarios (Part 1) include some measures that are not cost-
effective when only considering emissions reductions, where they support 
these wider objectives. 
• 
Energy policy, and in particular the likely impact of the decision on energy 
supplies and the carbon and energy intensity of the economy. By design, 
our scenarios set out in Part 1 of the report maintain security of electricity 
supply at similar levels to those required today. Chapter 2 sets out the 
impact of the recommended budget for emissions and energy 
consumption, including the reduced dependence on imported oil and gas. 
• 
Differences in circumstances between England, Wales, Scotland and 
Northern Ireland under our scenarios are set out in Chapter 4, as well as 
what our UK-wide pathways mean for emissions in each part of the UK. 
• 
Circumstances at European and international level. We consider the role of 
the UK in the global effort to tackle climate change in Chapter 7, including 
the UK’s commitments under the Paris Agreement and the benefits of UK 
leadership in the run up to COP26 in Glasgow in November 2021. 
• 
The estimated amount of reportable emissions from international aviation 
and international shipping for the budgetary period or periods in question. 
Emissions from these sectors under our scenarios are set out in Chapter 3, 
while considerations on how these affect the recommendation on the Sixth 
Carbon Budget are set out in Chapter 10. 
 
As well as the recommended level of the Sixth Carbon Budget, the Act also 
requires this advice to cover: 
• 
Whether and how emissions from international aviation and international 
shipping can be formally included in the carbon budgets;  
• 
The role of international emissions credits (known as ‘carbon units’ under 
the Act);  
• 
The opportunities for emissions reduction in particular sectors; and  
• 
The balance of emissions in the sectors that have been covered to-date by 
the EU ETS as against those outside. 
 
All of these matters are addressed in our recommendations in Chapter 10. 
 
 
53 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Supporting evidence and publications 
 
In support of the advice in this report, we have also produced  
• 
A Methodology Report, setting out the evidence and methodology behind 
the scenarios presented in Part 1 of this report.4 
• 
A Policy Report, setting out the changes to policy that could drive the 
changes necessary particularly over the 2020s.5 
• 
A dataset for the Sixth Carbon Budget scenarios, which sets out more 
details and data on the pathways than can be included in this report. 
 
We are also publishing a set of other documents alongside these reports (Box 1.3). 
 
In December 2019, we published a call for evidence on the Sixth Carbon Budget, 
which ran until February 2020. We received 177 responses, and published each of 
these, together with a summary document, in July 2020. We have also undertaken 
a wide range of engagement as an input to our advice (Figure 1.4 and Box 1.4).6 
 
Box 1.3  
New evidence and new CCC research 
In our work for the Sixth Carbon Budget we engaged with a range of experts to ensure 
that our analysis reflects up-to-date evidence wherever possible, building on the 
evidence we produced alongside our Net Zero report in 2019. In addition to the Call for 
Evidence (Box 1.4) new evidence and research collected for this report includes:  
• Three Expert Advisory Group reports on: the health co-benefits of the actions in our 
Sixth Carbon Budget scenarios, financing the investment required in our scenarios and 
how cross-cutting policy interventions can accelerate a transition to Net Zero.  
• Research and engagement with the UK’s business community, culminating in a series 
of briefing notes on enabling business to take a full role in Net Zero. 
• An in-depth report on how local and regional Government can deliver the UK’s Net 
Zero ambition. 
• Consultancy reports on the UK’s international climate influence, heat in buildings, 
energy efficiency in buildings, deep decarbonisation in industry, industry policy, heavy 
goods vehicles, agricultural abatement, land use modelling, low-carbon hydrogen 
and macroeconomic modelling. 
• Expert roundtable discussions on electricity market design, phase-out of unabated 
gas-fired generation, industrial decarbonisation policy, digitalisation, emissions 
removals, arable yield improvements and policy for buildings decarbonisation, 
including a published summary of the removals discussion. 
New evidence is summarised in Boxes in this report and the accompanying Policy and 
Methodology reports, with significant further detail available in the published materials on 
the Committee’s Sixth Carbon Budget webpage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other outputs more fully 
present the rich analysis that 
has gone into this advice. 
Our advice has drawn on 
extensive consultation and 
stakeholder input. 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
54 
Figure 1.4 Engagement, evidence and scrutiny 
for the Sixth Carbon Budget advice 
 
 
 
Box 1.4  
Call for evidence and wider engagement 
The Committee launched a Call for Evidence to inform its advice on the Sixth Carbon 
Budget and Welsh interim targets which ran between 5 December 2019 and 5 February 
2020. The Call for Evidence included 37 questions on five topics: 
A. Climate science and international circumstances 
B. The path to the 2050 target 
C. Delivering carbon budgets 
D. Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland 
E. Sector-specific questions 
The Call for Evidence received 177 responses from across business and industry, NGOs, 
academia and from individuals (Figure B1.4). The Committee published a summary of 
responses to the Call for Evidence in July 2020. The summary, including a list of 
respondents and links to responses in full, is available on the Committee’s website.  
 
Several common themes emerged from the Call for evidence. In particular:  
• The importance of equity-based approaches in determining the UK’s share of 
remaining global carbon budgets, though some respondents did not feel that 
remaining cumulative global budgets were relevant, but that the UK’s long-term Net 
Zero target and cost-effectiveness should instead be the main factors taken into 
account in determining UK carbon budgets. 
55 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• Strengthened international commitments should be reflected in a more stringent Sixth 
Carbon Budget and nationally defined contribution (NDC) for the period out to 2030. 
This could include revisiting the level of the Fourth and Fifth Carbon Budgets, for which 
there was strong support.  
• The role of individual behaviour change is important, but Government has a role in 
guiding people to make the right choices.  
 
• Many respondents highlighted the need to develop a robust approach to addressing 
consumption emissions (e.g. by adopting explicit consumption emissions targets, 
technology-adjusted consumption-based accounting, border carbon adjustments) to 
avoid emissions offshoring and better reflect the UK's impact on global emissions.  
• Many respondents noted a range of cross-cutting delivery challenges, such as public 
engagement, the need for local action and a need for a Just Transition, including 
suggestions on how these can be overcome. 
• This Call for Evidence included for the first time a large number of sector-specific 
questions (20 in total). The evidence submitted in response to questions in this section 
was considered by the CCC’s sector teams and reflected in our Sixth Carbon Budget 
scenarios, as well as our advice on policy and progress in each sector. 
The Call for Evidence was an important part of the Committee’s engagement 
programme, but not the only one. We also held a large number of roundtable discussions 
and bilateral meetings, including with groups that did not respond to the Call for 
Evidence. 
 
Figure B1.4 Responses to the Call for Evidence 
by type of respondent 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: ‘Business and industry’ includes consultancies and industry / trade bodies. ‘Other’ includes public and 
parliamentary bodies. 
 
 
Source: CCC (2020) Sixth Carbon Budget and Welsh emissions targets – Call for Evidence Summary 
Chapter 1: Introduction and key messages 
56 
1 Climate Assembly UK (2020) The path to Net Zero 
2 CCC (2020) The Sixth Carbon Budget – Methodology Report 
3 See 1 
4 CCC (2020) The Sixth Carbon Budget – Methodology Report  
5 CCC (2020) Policies for the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
6 CCC (2020) Sixth Carbon Budget and Welsh Emissions Targets Call for Evidence Summary.  
 
 
57 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The UK path to Net Zero 
 
 
1. The Balanced Pathway to Net Zero for the UK 
60 
2. Alternative pathways to Net Zero by 2050 
77 
3. Can the UK achieve Net Zero significantly before 2050? 
87 
 
 
59 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction and key messages 
 
The value of carbon budgets is in guiding action to reduce emissions on the path 
to the UK’s long-term Net Zero target. 
 
This chapter sets out how our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget (requiring a 78% 
reduction from 1990 to 2035, a 63% reduction relative to 2019) can be met on the 
pathway to Net Zero, based on the detailed bottom-up scenarios that the 
Committee has developed. 
 
Our key messages are:  
• 
The UK’s emissions fell by around 40% (365 MtCO2e) in the last three 
decades. In the next three decades, emissions must fall by 100% (522 
MtCO2e) to achieve the Net Zero goal.  
• 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway – the basis for our Sixth Carbon Budget 
recommendation – represents a decisive transition to Net Zero with over 
60% of the necessary reduction to Net Zero achieved in the coming 15 
years. 
• 
This will require systematic changes in consumer and business behaviours, 
our energy system, carbon capture and storage and how our land is used.  
• 
Success is contingent on taking actions in the 2020s across every sector of 
the economy. 
• 
There is flexibility to meet Net Zero in different ways depending on societal 
changes and technologies. Some sectors face key decision points in the 
2020s. 
• 
Our Tailwinds scenario gets to Net Zero in 2042 but it is a highly optimistic 
scenario, stretching feasibility in a wide range of areas and going beyond 
the current evidence in others. 
  
Chapter 3 provides more detail sector by sector while Chapter 4 sets out pathways 
for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Costs and impacts of the scenarios are 
set out in Chapters 5 and 6. Chapter 9 explains why this is the right pace of action 
to be on track to Net Zero and meet our commitments under the Paris Agreement. 
The accompanying Policy Report sets out the policy priorities to deliver the actions 
required to meet the recommended carbon budget. 
 
This Chapter is set out in three sections: 
1. The Balanced Pathway to Net Zero for the UK 
2. Alternative pathways to Net Zero by 2050 
3. Can the UK achieve Net Zero significantly before 2050? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
60 
1. The Balanced Pathway to Net Zero for the UK  
This section sets out the actions the Committee has assessed as being required in 
the 2020s to get on track to Net Zero and to meet our recommended Sixth Carbon 
Budget. It is set out in five parts:  
a) 
The scale of the Net Zero challenge 
b) 
Emissions in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
c) 
Actions in the 2020s and beyond 
d) 
Key phase out dates 
e) 
Energy, carbon capture and storage, and land use requirements 
 
 
a) The scale of the Net Zero challenge 
 
The majority of emissions in 2018 – the most recent year for which there is an 
accurate estimate of emissions for all sectors – were associated with the 
combustion of fossil fuels in the ‘energy system’: electricity production, transport, 
heat in buildings, and industry (Figure 2.1). 
 
UK greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 were 522 MtCO2e.* By 2050 the UK’s net 
emissions must fall by 100% from current levels to achieve Net Zero, with any 
residual emissions offset by actions that remove CO2 from the atmosphere. 
 
Emissions have fallen by 40% in the last three decades, with the most rapid progress 
over the most recent decade:  
• 
In the last three decades, UK GHG emissions have fallen at an average rate 
of 13 MtCO2e per year.  
• 
Outside of the electricity supply sector, emissions have fallen at an average 
rate of just 7 MtCO2e per year. 
• 
Progress has been quicker in recent years, primarily led by the UK’s transition 
from coal-fired power generation towards low-carbon generation. Since 
2012, UK emissions have fallen on average by 19 MtCO2e per year. In the 
last five years emissions have fallen by 16 MtCO2e on average. 
 
Emissions must fall more quickly to meet the Sixth Carbon Budget (by around 
21 MtCO2e per year). However, the power sector can no longer be relied upon to 
deliver the majority of these reductions; progress must extend to all sectors of the 
economy (Figure 2.2). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Including emissions from international aviation and shipping and accounting for upcoming changes to the inventory 
regarding peatlands and global warming potentials of greenhouse gases (Box 2.1). 
UK emissions have fallen by 
two-fifths in the last thirty years. 
Emissions must fall by 100% in 
the next thirty years.  
Action must be taken in all 
sectors of the economy, not 
just the power sector. 
61 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 2.1 UK emissions by sector in 2018 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Provisional emissions data for 2019 is not available for all sectors and for non-CO2 emissions. 
 
 
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
MtCO2e
Waste and F-gases
Agriculture and land
Manufacturing, construction &
fuel supply
Electricity supply
Buildings
Transport
F-gases
Waste
LULUCF sources
Agriculture
Fuel supply
Manufacturing & construction
Electricity supply
Non-residential buildings
Residential buildings
Shipping
Aviation
Surface transport
LULUCF sinks
2018 emissions
2018 emissions
(more detailed sectors)
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
62 
The UK is already meeting some of our energy and economic needs with low-
carbon technologies, but these are not yet deployed at the scale that is consistent 
with Net Zero: 
• 
Emissions from electricity production have fallen by 74% since 1990 – and 
65% in the last decade – as coal-fired power stations have closed, 
electricity demand has fallen, and renewable generation capacity has 
increased. Half of UK electricity generation in 2019 was from low-carbon 
sources, including renewables and nuclear. 
• 
In other sectors, 99% of all miles driven on UK roads are in vehicles with 
petrol and diesel engines, all commercial flights are powered by fossil fuels, 
less than 5% of the energy used for heating homes and buildings is from 
low-carbon sources, and only around 25% of industrial energy demand is 
met by electricity or hydrogen. 
 
Outside of energy use sectors, current levels of tree planting and peatland 
restoration are well below the required rate for Net Zero, emissions from agriculture 
have not fallen in the last decade, and large volumes of biodegradable waste are 
still sent to landfill. 
 
Figure 2.2 To meet Net Zero, emissions must fall 
in all sectors and at a faster rate than the last 
thirty years 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Net Zero emissions in 2050 will require any residual emissions to be offset by the UK land use sink and 
greenhouse gas removals. 
 
 
 
Some low-carbon technology 
has been deployed in the UK  
but not at a level which is 
consistent with Net Zero. 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1990
2018
2050
MtCO2e
Waste and F-gases
Agriculture and land use
Manufacturing, construction & fuel supply
Electricity supply
Buildings
Transport
63 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) Emissions in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Our Balanced Pathway reaches Net Zero in 2050 for all greenhouse gases (Figure 
2.3), including the UK’s share of emissions from international aviation and shipping  
(IAS), and including the higher range of anticipated changes to the UK 
greenhouse gas inventory (Box 2.1). 
 
The Balanced Pathway represents a decisive transition to Net Zero, with over 60% 
of the necessary reduction to Net Zero achieved in the coming 15 years and the 
fastest rate of decarbonisation occurring in the early 2030s. 
 
The date for Net Zero would be earlier on other measurement bases that exclude 
IAS emissions and/or are for CO2 rather than the full range of greenhouse gases* 
and/or assume the lower range of changes to the inventory (Table 2.1).  
 
Figure 2.3 The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for 
the UK 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: The fall in 2020 is largely due to COVID-19 impacts on aviation and shipping. 
 
 
 
 
*   Although all of the greenhouse gases (GHGs) contribute to warming temperatures, peak temperature change is 
determined by when emissions of long-lived GHGs reach Net Zero (assuming that short-lived GHG emissions are not 
rising). Of the long-lived GHGs, CO2 contributes most to warming and therefore the date of Net Zero CO2 is closely 
linked with when the contribution to rising temperatures ends. 
The Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway has the steepest 
transition in the period 2025 
to 2035. 60% of the total 
emissions reductions required 
for Net Zero are in the next 
fifteen years. 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Outturn
Baseline
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
64 
Table 2.1 
When the Balanced Net Zero Pathway reaches Net Zero emissions on different bases 
 
‘High-high’ inventory changes 
‘Low-low’ inventory changes 
Including IAS, all greenhouse gases 
2050 
2048 
Excluding IAS, all greenhouse gases 
2047 
2045 
Including IAS, CO2 only 
2044 
2043 
Excluding IAS, CO2 only 
2041 
2041 
Notes: High-high’ refers to AR5 GWPs with climate-carbon feedbacks and a higher estimate of emissions from peatlands. ‘Low-low’ refers to AR5 GWPs 
without climate-carbon feedbacks and a lower estimate of emissions from peatlands. 
 
Box 2.1 
Forthcoming changes to the UK greenhouse gas inventory  
Future changes to the emissions inventory include the addition of emissions from peatland 
and revision of the Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) used to aggregate greenhouse 
gas emissions: 
• Peatland (expected to be included in the UK inventory by 2022).1 The current inventory 
only captures around 1.3 MtCO2e of emissions from peatlands, but all sources of 
peatland emissions will be included in the inventory in the near future: 
– The ‘high’ range of emissions from peatland would add around 21 MtCO 2e 
to the inventory in 2018, and would also increase the 1990 baseline by 21 
MtCO2e. This is the basis upon which targets in this report are 
recommended.  
– The ‘low’ range of emissions from peatland could add around 17 MtCO2e 
to the inventory, and would also increase the 1990 baseline by 17 MtCO 2e. 
• Global Warming Potentials (expected to be updated in the UK inventory by 2024). 
These are used to aggregate different greenhouse gases together into a common 
metric, showing their equivalence to carbon dioxide. At COP24 in December 2018 the 
international community decided to standardise reporting under the Paris Agreement 
transparency framework using the GWP100 metric.2 The values to be used are those 
from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5). There are two methodologies, and it is 
not yet clear which will be used. Both are different from the values used in the current 
emissions inventory and will lead to an increase in the estimate of UK emissions:  
– The ‘high’ estimate of GWPs include climate-carbon feedbacks. Under this 
methodology, the size of the existing inventory would increase by around 
19 MtCO2e while the 1990 baseline would increase by nearly 47 MtCO2e. 
This is almost entirely due to a 36% increase in the estimated global warming 
impact of methane (CH4) emissions. This is the basis upon which targets in 
this report are recommended. 
– The ‘low’ GWPs do not include climate-carbon feedbacks, and would lead 
to a smaller increase in the size of the UK emissions inventory. The estimate 
of the existing inventory would increase by around 5 MtCO2e while the 1990 
baseline would increase by 10 MtCO2e. Under this methodology CH4 
methane emissions have a 12% higher warming impact than the current 
estimate, while the warming impact of N2O emissions is 11% lower. 
The two changes overlap because peatlands are a source of both CH 4 and N2O 
emissions. The range for the total combined impact of the peatland and GWP changes is 
around an additional 27-70 MtCO2e in 1990 and 23-42 MtCO2e in 2019 compared to the 
current inventory. 
 
The Balanced Pathway would 
get to Net Zero slightly earlier if 
a different accounting 
methodology were used.  
65 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Emissions under the Balanced Pathway fall at different rates in different sectors 
(Figures 2.4 and 2.5), depending on the maturity of decarbonisation options and 
the policy framework, as well as sector-specific dynamics: 
• 
Emissions under the Balanced Pathway fall most rapidly in the electricity 
supply sector. Mature decarbonisation options already exist for replacing 
fossil fired generation with renewables, combined with a well-developed 
policy approach that provides long-term certainty to the sector. 
• 
Other sectors, including buildings and transport, build up to peak rates of 
decarbonisation during the 2030s. Markets and supply chains for low-
carbon technologies such as heat pumps and electric vehicles develop in 
the 2020s, reaching the peak replacement rate of high-carbon capital 
stock turnover in the 2030s.  
• 
Emissions from manufacturing and construction and fuel supply also start to 
fall faster from the late 2020s as industry switches to low-carbon production, 
enabled by electrification and new hydrogen and carbon capture and 
storage technology. 
• 
Emissions from agriculture and aviation do not reach zero emissions and 
need to be offset by removals from the forestry carbon sink – which grows 
steadily over time with tree planting – and greenhouse gas removals which 
are deployed at scale starting in the 2020s. 
 
Figure 2.4 Sectoral emissions under the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: LULUCF = Land-use, land-use change and forestry. 
 
The electricity supply sector 
can decarbonise first because 
of the progress already made 
in the last ten years. Most 
sectors see the fastest rate of 
change in the 2030s. 
-90
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
Change 2019 - 2035
Surface transport
Electricity supply
Manufacturing & construction
Buildings
Fuel supply
Removals
Waste
Agriculture
F-gases
LULUCF (sources and sinks)
Aviation
Shipping
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Annual emissions
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
66 
Figure 2.5 Change in sectoral emissions in the  
balanced Net Zero pathway compared to  
2019 levels 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Aviation and shipping pathways are lower in 2020 due to COVID-19. LULUCF = Land-use, land-use change 
and forestry. 
 
c) Actions in the 2020s and beyond 
 
There are thirty years until 2050, the latest date by which the UK must reach Net 
Zero emissions. Policy is required now to meet that deadline. Technologies in the 
energy system frequently last for 15-20 years, and planning and consenting 
developments can have lead-times of five to ten years. Similarly, in order to 
maximise the role that natural carbon storage can play in contributing to Net Zero, 
investment in afforestation and peatland restoration must begin immediately to 
ensure the benefits contribute towards the Net Zero target. 
 
A key Net Zero challenge for the next ten years is to scale up investment so that 
almost all new investments and long-lived purchases are zero-carbon by the early 
2030s at the latest. Policies (many of which are under active development) to 
deliver that scale-up must be fully implemented as soon as possible to work with 
asset replacement lifetimes, with a full and credible plan for these policies outlined 
well in advance of COP26 in November 2021.  
 
Our Sixth Carbon Budget recommendation reflects that need by assuming 
progress in reducing emissions and creating options for the subsequent period 
(Table 2.2).  
 
 
The pace of transition to Net 
Zero is not uniform across 
sectors. 
The key challenge in the next 
decade is to scale up 
investment, markets and 
supply chains to enable all 
new investments to be zero-
carbon by the early 2030s. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
2019 = 100
Surface transport
Aviation
Shipping
Fuel supply
Manufacturing & construction
Buildings
Electricity supply
Agriculture & LULUCF
Waste
F-gases
67 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
All our scenarios reflect strong contributions from a set of key technologies and 
behaviours across four key areas (Figure 2.6, Table 2.3): 
• 
Reducing demand for carbon-intensive activities. 
– Reduced demand. Around 10% of the emissions saving in our 
Balanced Pathway in 2035 comes from changes that reduce demand 
for carbon-intensive activity. Particularly important in our scenarios are 
an accelerated shift in diets away from meat and dairy products, 
reductions in waste, slower growth in flights and reductions in travel 
demand. While changes are needed, these can happen over time 
and overall can be positive for health and well-being. 
– Improved efficiency. A further 5% comes from improving efficiency, in 
use of energy and resources, especially by better insulation of 
buildings, improving vehicle efficiency and improving efficiency in 
industry. 
• 
Take-up of low-carbon solutions. Over half the emissions saving is from 
people and businesses adopting low-carbon solutions as high-carbon 
options are phased out (Table 3). By the early 2030s all new cars and vans 
and all boiler replacements in homes and other buildings must be low-
carbon – we expect largely electric. By 2040 all new heavy goods vehicles 
should be low-carbon. Industry must either adopt technologies that use 
electricity or hydrogen instead of fossil fuels, or install carbon capture and 
storage. 
• 
Expansion of low-carbon energy supplies. 
– Low-carbon electricity. Low-carbon electricity can now be produced 
more cheaply than high-carbon electricity in the UK and globally. In 
our Balanced Pathway the low-carbon share increases from 50% now 
to 100% by 2035, cutting UK emissions by 18% compared to our 
baseline. New demands from transport, buildings and industry 
(moderated by improving energy efficiency) mean electricity 
demand rises 50% to 2035, doubling or even trebling by 2050. The 
largest contribution is from offshore wind, reaching the Government’s 
goal of 40 GW in 2030, on a path to 65-125 GW by 2050. 
– Low-carbon hydrogen production scales up to 90 TWh by 2035 (i.e. 
nearly a third of the size of the current power sector), produced using 
electricity or from natural gas or biomass with carbon capture and 
storage. It is used in areas less suited to electrification, particularly 
shipping and parts of industry, and is vital in providing flexibility to deal 
with intermittency in the power system. It may also have a material 
longer-term role in buildings and other transport, such as heavy goods 
vehicles. 
• 
Land and removals. A transformation is needed in the UK’s land while 
supporting UK farmers. By 2035 our scenarios involve planting of 440,000 
hectares of mixed woodland to remove CO2 from the atmosphere as they 
grow, with a further 260,000 hectares of agricultural land shifting to 
bioenergy production (including short rotation forestry). This would see UK 
woodland cover growing from 13% now to 15% by 2035. Peatlands must be 
restored widely and managed sustainably. Low-carbon farming practices 
must be adopted widely, while raising farm productivity. Alongside the 
nature-based removals, by 2035 the UK should be using bioenergy (largely 
grown in the UK) with CCS to deliver engineered removals of CO2 at scale.  
 
 
The largest contribution is from 
mass take-up of low-carbon 
solutions, powered by a major 
expansion of low-carbon 
electricity and hydrogen 
supplies. 
Changes in the UK’s land use 
are also needed. 
Lower-carbon choices and 
efficiency can make a 
material contribution to 
meeting the budget. 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
68 
 
 
69 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 2.6 Types of abatement in the Balanced 
Net Zero pathway 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: ‘Other low-carbon technology’ includes use of bioenergy and waste treatment measures. ‘Producing low-
carbon energy’ requires the use of carbon capture and storage (CCS) in electricity generation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Reduce demand
Improve efficiency
Low-carbon solutions: electrification
Low-carbon solutions: hydrogen and other low-carbon technology
Low-carbon solutions: CO₂ capture from fossil fuels and industry
Produce low-carbon energy
Offset emissions using land and greenhouse gas removals
Outturn and baseline
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
70 
Box 2.2 
The role of individuals in achieving the Sixth Carbon Budget 
To date, much of the success in reducing UK emissions has been invisible to the public. 
Government policy has enabled emissions reductions to proceed in a way that has not 
required mass engagement, by reducing the 'supply' of emissions into the economy. For 
example, low-carbon power now provides over 50% of the UK's electricity supply, with no 
change to the service that electricity provides. Reaching Net Zero will require more 
involvement from people in engaging with the emissions reductions required, and 
reducing or adapting demand for energy-intensive services: 
 
• Over 40% of the abatement in our scenarios to 2035 involves at least some degree of 
change from consumers (e.g. driving an electric car, or installing a heat pump instead 
of a gas boiler) (Figure B2.2). 
• Over 15% of the abatement measures in our scenarios require consumer choices – 
both to reduce demand and improve efficiency. Shifting quickly towards healthier 
diets, reducing growth in aviation demand and choosing products that last longer 
and therefore improve resource efficiency are all key. In the Widespread Engagement 
scenario this is even higher, at 19%. 
There are many reasons to think that these changes, and potentially much larger 
changes, are feasible given suitable policy leadership. Alongside this advice, we have 
published a note by Committee member Professor Nick Chater on the behavioural 
principles underpinning this view.3  
 
It will not be possible to get close to meeting a Net Zero target without engaging with 
people or by pursuing an approach that focuses only on supply-side changes. The recent 
Climate Assembly - which saw a representative sample of the UK’s population deliberate 
over how to achieve Net Zero - noted the importance of involving people in decision-
making, not just persuading them to change, as part of a national conversation on the 
options available for achieving Net Zero and how these options should be pursued. 
 
Figure B2.2 Role of societal and behavioural  
changes in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway  
(2035) 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
71 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
d) Key phase-out dates 
 
The dynamics of each sector, and the principle of minimising early scrappage, 
point to common timings on the phase-out of high-carbon assets on the path to 
Net Zero, regardless of what low-carbon solution replaces them (Table 2.3): 
• 
Boiler lifetimes of 15 years imply a phase-out date for the installation of fossil 
fuel boilers in advance of 2035, in order for uptake of low-carbon heat to 
be sufficient to decarbonise buildings by 2050. Our Balanced Pathway sees 
sales of oil boilers phased out by 2028, and gas boilers by 2033 in residential 
homes, with the exception of hydrogen-ready gas boilers in areas where 
the gas grid is set to convert to low-carbon hydrogen.  
• 
Sales of new fossil fuel cars, vans and motorbikes are phased out by 2032 in 
our Balanced Pathway. 
• 
Building on the phase-out of coal-fired power generation by 2024, no new 
unabated gas plants should be built after 2030, and the burning of 
unabated natural gas for electricity generation should be phased out 
entirely by 2035. Any gas plant built before 2030 should be made ready for 
a switch to CCS or hydrogen (i.e. this should be both technically feasible 
and the plant should be located in a part of the country that will be served 
by the necessary infrastructure).  
• 
Emissions from the UK’s growing fleet of energy-from-waste plants will need 
to be captured in order for energy-from-waste to be sufficiently low-carbon 
by 2050. Waste should be minimised, and any new plants should be built 
with CCS or CCS ready.  
 
Table 2.3 
Phase-out dates of high-carbon activities under the Balanced Pathway  
Technology/behaviour 
Phase-out date (new sales) 
Backstop date (operation) 
New fossil-fuelled cars  
and vans 
2032 (including plug-in hybrids) 
2050 
Gas boilers 
 
2033 (in residential homes) 
2030-33 (in commercial properties) 
2050 
Oil boilers  
2028 (in residential homes) 
2025-26 (in commercial properties) 
2050 
Gas power generation (unabated) 
2030 (no new build of unabated gas plants 
from this date) 
2035 
HGVs 
2040 (<1% of sales by 2040) 
Beyond 2050 
Biodegradable waste sent to 
landfill 
N/A 
2025 ban on all municipal & 
non-municipal 
biodegradable waste going 
to landfill 
Unabated energy-from-waste 
plants 
From today, new plants and extensions should 
be built with CCS or CCS ready 
2050 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sale and construction of 
new high-carbon assets should 
be phased out by specific 
dates to ensure that they are 
removed from the economy 
before 2050. 
 
Where possible, new 
equipment should be 
designed to allow retrofit of 
low-carbon technologies like 
CCS or hydrogen. 
 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
72 
e) Energy, carbon capture and storage and land use requirements 
 
In our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, the economy becomes much more energy 
efficient as a whole, with total energy demand falling by around 33% in end-use 
sectors between now and 2050.  
 
The energy system moves almost entirely from the existing, high-carbon fuel 
sources to low-carbon alternatives (Figure 2.7):  
• 
Fossil fuels largely phased out. Demand falls significantly to 2050 for oil (-
85%) and natural gas (-70%) as the energy system makes the transition to 
Net Zero. Petroleum use is mainly restricted to the aviation sector, while 
natural gas use is limited to combustion with CCS for power generation and 
industrial processes and phased out of use in buildings. Opportunities for 
high-efficiency electrification (e.g. moving to EVs and heat pumps that are 
three times the efficiency of conventional vehicles and boilers) mean that 
demand for oil and gas falls more rapidly than the increase in electricity 
demand. 
• 
Low-carbon electricity becomes the dominant energy vector for the UK, 
with output increasing to more than double current levels by 2050. This 
rapid expansion in low-carbon electricity is used to transform other sectors. 
• 
Hydrogen. From the 2030s onwards a hydrogen economy develops from 
virtually zero use in the energy system today, to a scale that is comparable 
to existing electricity use by 2050.  
• 
Bioenergy and waste use is expected to grow modestly by 30% to 2050 
(Figure 2.8). Resources are increasingly diverted to the most carbon-
efficient uses, including with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) which 
uses 85% of bioenergy supplies by 2050. There may be a fall in total 
bioenergy use to 2030 if unabated uses decline before BECCS applications 
ramp up. 
 
At the same time, carbon capture and storage (CCS) is used to avoid further 
emissions from industry, alongside a role in permanent removal of CO2 from the 
atmosphere and in electricity and hydrogen production (Figure 2.9): 
• 
CCS is applied to the manufacturing & construction sector at scale in the 
2030s, and continues to remove CO2 at similar levels out to 2050. 
• 
By 2050, around 60% of the carbon captured in the UK is in the greenhouse 
gas removals sector, primarily through the combustion of biomass for 
electricity generation, with a further 20% used for the production of 
hydrogen and 10% used with gas in the power sector.  
 
The UK’s land also has a crucial role to play with shifts in land use from today 
(Figure 2.10): 
• 
Around one-third of agricultural land is freed up through reduced output 
and more efficient farming practices. 
• 
In total, 25% of the UK land area is forested or used for agro-forestry and 
energy crop production by 2050 - compared to around 15% today. 
• 
Harmful peat extraction is ended, and by 2050 nearly 80% of the UK’s 
peatlands are restored to their natural state. 
 
 
The Balanced Pathway sees a 
significant fall in the 
consumption of fossil fuels, 
replaced by low-carbon 
electricity, hydrogen and 
bioenergy.  
Our Balanced Pathway has 
CCS deployed at scale, 
primarily in manufacturing & 
construction, hydrogen and 
electricity production, and 
greenhouse gas removals.  
Electricity consumption would 
more than double under the 
Balanced pathway. 
 
 
 
 
 
A new hydrogen economy 
develops to a scale 
comparable to today’s 
electricity system by 2050. 
 
 
Bioenergy transitions to 
applications with CCS. 
 
 
 
 
73 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 2.7 Energy demand (TWh) by sector in 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Electricity
0
200
400
600
800
1000
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Gas
0
200
400
600
800
1000
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Oil
0
100
200
300
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Hydrogen
Other sectors
Removals
Waste
Shipping
Aviation
Fuel supply
Manufacturing & construction
Buildings
Surface transport
Electricity supply
Energy demand falls on 
aggregate, with fossil fuels 
replaced by low-carbon 
electricity and hydrogen. 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
74 
Figure 2.8 Bioenergy and waste use in 2018, 2035 
and 2050 in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: These values are TWh/yr HHV, given the starting ‘primary’ bioenergy & waste resources (prior to conversion 
into forms for delivery to end use sectors), i.e. solid biomass, liquid biofuels, biogas and solid wastes. These values 
include the fossil fraction of waste. Supply difference in 2035 will likely mean fewer biomass imports are used than 
are available. Minor differences in 2050 due to energy from waste approximations. 
 
 
Bioenergy transitions from 
unabated uses in electricity, 
industrial heat, buildings and 
road vehicles, to use with CCS 
in electricity, hydrogen and 
biojet applications. Energy-
from-waste plants add CCS. 
75 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 2.9 Total amount of CO2 captured in the 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
Over 100 Mt of CO2 is 
captured by 2050 in the 
Balanced Pathway, mostly for 
greenhouse gas removals and 
hydrogen production. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2020
2030
2040
2050
MtCO2 captured
Greenhouse gas removals
Waste
Manufacturing & construction
Other fuel supply
Hydrogen production
Electricity supply
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
76 
Figure 2.10 Land uses in 2019 and under the 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway in 2050 
 
Source: Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (2020) and CCC analysis. 
Notes: Forestry area includes small woodland areas (less than 0.5 ha or less than 20m in width) which are assumed 
to stay at current area. These areas are not accounted for in the Forestry Commission stats of forest coverage. 
 
 
The Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway involves a 
transformation in how our land 
is used.  
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
Cropland
Permanent
Grassland
Temp
grassland
Rough grazing
Forestry
Agro-forestry
& hedgerows
Energy crops
& SRF
Restored
peatland
Settlements
Other
Surplus land
released
Agricultural land
Forestry,
agroforestry and
bioenergy
Other
Proportion of UK
land area
Land use in 2019
Land use in 2050
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
77 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
2. Alternative pathways to Net Zero by 2050 
This section addresses the implications of different pathways to Net Zero on the 
level of the Sixth Carbon Budget. This section presents results for all of our 
exploratory scenarios, but primarily focuses on the Headwinds, Widespread 
Engagement, Widespread Innovation scenarios. The Tailwinds scenario and the 
potential to achieve Net Zero before 2050 are discussed in Section 3. This section is 
set out in four parts: 
a) Different emissions pathways for reaching Net Zero 
b) Contributions of different decarbonisation options 
c) Critical decision points 
d) The impacts of uncertainties on meeting the budget 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
78 
a) Different emissions pathways for reaching Net Zero 
 
Our exploratory scenarios have different balances of measures to reduce emissions 
(Figure 2.6). Each scenario has its own set of measures contributing to differing 
extents with differing timings, so the resultant emissions pathways deviate 
somewhat in the transition to Net Zero (Figure 2.11), although they are relatively 
close together in the 2020s and by 2035, the middle of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
period (Figure 2.12): 
• 
Total emissions across the Sixth Carbon Budget period (2033-2037) in the 
Headwinds, Widespread Engagement, and Widespread Innovation 
scenarios are all broadly comparable to the level of the Balanced 
Pathway, ranging from 12% higher to 9% lower than the Balanced Pathway. 
• 
The Tailwinds scenario diverges the most from the Balanced Pathway 
during the budget period, with emissions 36% lower than the Balanced 
Pathway over the course of the budget period. 
 
Figure 2.11 The Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
and exploratory scenarios for the UK 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: The fall in 2020 is largely due to COVID-19 impacts on aviation and shipping. 
 
 
 
There is flexibility to meet Net 
Zero in a number of different 
ways. 
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Outturn
Baseline
Headwinds
Widespread Engagement
Widespread Innovation
Tailwinds
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
79 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 2.12 Sectoral emissions in 2035 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
Each scenario shows similar dynamics to the Balanced Pathway in terms of 
sectoral rates of reduction, albeit in some cases on the pathway to different levels 
of sectoral emissions in 2050.  
 
The level of remaining emissions in 2050 is most sensitive to activity in the aviation 
and agriculture sectors, which must then be offset by removals in the land use, 
land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) and greenhouse gas removals sectors 
(Figure 2.13):  
• 
In the Headwinds scenario, in which residual emissions are highest due to 
lower overall levels of behaviour change and innovation, the Net Zero 
target is most dependent on engineered removals.  
• 
In the Widespread Engagement scenario and Widespread Innovation 
scenarios where residual emissions from aviation, agriculture and all other 
sectors are lower than in Headwinds, a lower level of removals and forestry 
sinks are needed to achieve the Net Zero goal. 
• 
The Tailwinds scenario reaches net-negative emissions of more than 
−100 MtCO2e by 2050, with a high level of removals and very low residual 
emissions across the economy. We have assessed the potential for the 
actions identified in the Tailwinds scenario to reach Net Zero by 2050 with 
minimal use of CCS (Box 2.4). 
 
The emissions trajectories show 
a similar path in the next 
decades before the scenarios 
diverge in the 2030s. 
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
MtCO2e
F-gases
Waste
LULUCF sources
Agriculture
Manufacturing & construction
Fuel supply
Electricity supply
Non-residential buildings
Residential buildings
Shipping
Aviation
Surface transport
Removals
LULUCF sinks
Total
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
80 
Figure 2.13 Emissions scenarios for 2050 are most 
sensitive to the balance of action across aviation, 
agriculture, LULUCF and greenhouse gas removals 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
b) Contributions of different decarbonisation options 
 
The ‘Balanced Net Zero Pathway’ has a relatively balanced mix of contributions 
from demand-side action, electrification, hydrogen, and natural and engineered 
greenhouse gas removals (GGRs). 
 
The exploratory scenarios deliver Net Zero with different mixes of these measures. 
To some extent, this affects the timings of their emissions reductions:  
• 
Headwinds. The greater reliance of the Headwinds scenario on use of 
hydrogen and carbon capture and storage (including for hydrogen 
production) means that some of the emissions reductions in this scenario 
happen less quickly than the other exploratory scenarios. 
• 
Widespread Engagement involves greater societal shifts in behaviour, 
including a reduction in consumption of all meat and dairy of 50% by 2050 
compared to today’s levels, a reduction in flying of 10% compared to pre-
COVID levels, and up to one third of all car journeys being replaced by 
walking, cycling or public transport. Similarly, increased resource efficiency 
and energy efficiency measures in homes are also prevalent in this 
scenario.    
 
 
The scenarios for emissions in 
2050 are most sensitive to the 
balance of action across 
aviation, agriculture, land use 
and greenhouse gas removals. 
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
MtCO2e
Aviation
Agriculture
All other sectors
Greenhouse gas removals
LULUCF sinks
Total
81 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Widespread Innovation sees the costs of low-carbon technologies fall 
further than other scenarios, and technology efficiencies improve. New 
technologies also play a larger role, such as Direct Air Carbon Capture and 
Storage (DACCS), high temperature heat pumps, autonomous vehicles 
and lab-grown meat. 
 
The choices within these exploratory scenarios have significant impacts on the UK 
energy system, CCS requirements and land use (Figures 2.14, 2.15, 2.16). 
  
Figure 2.14 Total amount of CO2 captured in 
2050 in the scenarios 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: ‘Greenhouse gas removals’ is aggregation of all UK negative emissions and is not entirely separate to the 
other sectors listed. It includes the combustion of biogenic waste and biomass with CCS in other sectors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Headwinds scenario is 
most dependent on the use of 
CCS, whereas the Widespread 
Engagement scenario and 
Widespread Innovation 
scenarios both use less CCS 
than the Balanced Pathway. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
MtCO captured
Greenhouse gas removals
Waste
Manufacturing & construction
Other fuel supply
Hydrogen production
Electricity supply
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
82 
Figure 2.15 Energy demand (TWh) in 2050 by  
sector in the scenarios 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Electricity
0
200
400
600
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Gas
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Oil
0
100
200
300
400
500
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Hydrogen
Other sectors
Removals
Waste
Shipping
Aviation
Fuel supply
Manufacturing & construction
Buildings
Surface transport
Electricity supply
83 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 2.16 UK land use in 2050 
 
Source: Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (2020) and CCC analysis. 
Notes: SRF = Short Rotation Forestry. Forestry area includes small woodland areas (less than 0.5 ha or less than 20 m 
in width) which are assumed to stay at current area. These areas are not accounted for in the Forestry Commission 
stats of forest coverage. 
 
c) Critical decision points 
 
While many choices can be made now over the broad shape of the transition, 
there remain some decision points for Government in the coming decade: 
• 
Electrification and hydrogen for buildings. Hydrogen has the potential to 
replace fossil fuels in areas where electrification may reach limits of 
feasibility and cost-effectiveness, including a partial role for heat in 
buildings. Gas distribution networks will not be able to continue to provide 
natural gas on a widespread basis by 2050 - they will either need to be 
decommissioned or, if feasible, repurposed to hydrogen. Decisions will be 
required from the mid-2020s on the balance between electrification and 
hydrogen in decarbonising heating, and the implications for gas networks. 
• 
HGVs should be decarbonised, although it is not yet clear whether through 
hydrogen or electrification or a combination of the two. Given lead-times 
for infrastructure and the time needed to turn over vehicle stocks, decisions 
will be needed from the Government in the second half of the 2020s on 
how HGVs will be decarbonised, with commercial-scale trial deployments 
of technologies (including electrification and hydrogen) needed prior to 
this. Technological progress is likely to be driven globally and coordination 
will be required with connected markets in Ireland and mainland Europe.  
 
Our scenarios explore a range 
of ambition on land use, but 
each scenario involves 
transformational land-use 
change. 
In the next decade, the  
Government will need to 
make choices on the future of 
heating and HGVs in the UK. 
Until those decisions are taken 
it is prudent for the UK to keep 
options open.  
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Balanced Net
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Share of land use
Additional land released
Settlements and other
Energy crops & SRF
Agro-forestry & hedgerows
Forestry
Restored peatland
Rough grazing
Temporary grassland
Permanent Grassland
Cropland
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
84 
Until those decisions are made, the UK can keep as many options open as possible 
by supporting pilot programmes and accelerating deployment of ‘low-regret’ 
options (such as heat pumps in homes off the gas grid). 
 
d) The impacts of uncertainties on meeting the budget 
 
Beyond the factors considered within the scenarios, there is a range of 
conceivable uncertainties, where our assumptions generally err on the side of 
caution (i.e. if our assumptions are wrong it would tend to make the 
recommended budget easier to meet). Uncertainties include the performance of 
the economy and forthcoming changes to the methodology for estimating 
emissions within the inventory (Figure 2.17): 
• 
Level of GDP. Future performance of the economy – and hence the level of 
economic activity that could cause emissions – is always uncertain to some 
degree. At the moment, the uncertainty is much greater than usual, 
relating to how the economy will recover after the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Our analysis has assumed that there is no lasting impact on GDP, an 
assumption at the optimistic end of the July scenarios from the Office for 
Budget Responsibility (OBR). This compares to the OBR’s ‘Downside’ 
scenario for a lasting 6% hit to GDP (Box 2.3). While the pattern of emissions 
impacts under such a scenario is uncertain, a uniform 6% reduction in all 
emitting activity relative to the Balanced Net Zero Pathway would lead to 
emissions being 11 MtCO2e lower in 2035, or 57 MtCO2e across the five-year 
Sixth Carbon Budget period. 
• 
Sustained behaviour changes post-COVID. While 2020 has seen some large 
changes in patterns of behaviour due to the COVID-19 pandemic and 
associated restrictions, it is unclear the extent to which these changes will 
endure:  
– In the Widespread Engagement scenario, we have explored the 
impacts of some sustained societal and behavioural changes (e.g. a 
sustained reduction in business aviation demand, due to greater 
familiarity with videoconferencing). This does not represent the full 
range of possible societal changes that result from the pandemic.  
– Given the lack of clear evidence on how much behaviour may 
change and for how long, in the Balanced Pathway we have 
assumed that behaviour patterns return to how they were before the 
pandemic. Sustained changes of some of the kinds seen during 2020 
(e.g. increased working from home, more walking and cycling) would 
tend to reduce overall emissions and also have positive co-impacts for 
health.  
• 
Changes to the UK Greenhouse Gas Inventory.  
– There will be changes to how UK emissions are estimated, owing to 
increasing the scope of the emissions inventory to count all emissions 
from wetlands and also because of changes in estimates from the 
IPCC for the global warming potentials of methane and other non-
CO2 gases (see Box 2.1). These changes are expected to be made 
before 2025 and, in each case, there is a range of possible impacts 
depending on the precise methodology chosen. We have included 
those extra emissions at the upper end of current estimates. This means 
there is a possibility that estimated emissions may end up being 
around 15 MtCO2e lower than we have assumed in our analysis. 
Should this transpire, the Sixth Carbon Budget would have an effective 
75 MtCO2e of headroom across the five-year budget period. 
Where possible, our analysis 
makes conservative 
assumptions about uncertain 
factors including economic 
growth and changes to the UK 
greenhouse gas inventory. 
Changes to how UK emissions 
are estimated can make the 
budget easier or more difficult 
to meet. Where we know of 
changes in the near future, we 
have assumed the higher 
range of possible impacts. 
Our Balanced Pathway does 
not assume lasting behavioural 
changes from the pandemic. 
The lasting impacts of the 
pandemic are unclear, but 
may cause emissions to fall 
particularly if transport 
behaviours change. 
85 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
– Bunker fuel sales are the currently agreed basis by which countries 
report international shipping emissions to the UN. Were an alternative 
methodology agreed, this would likely lead to an increase in the UK's 
international shipping emissions (for example, the activity basis used for 
the IMO's 4th GHG study could double UK international shipping 
emissions to around 16 MtCO2e). 
– Estimates of UK emissions will continue to change in the future as 
international understanding of the science improves and the IPCC 
issues new guidance on reporting. These changes could potentially 
shift the UK inventory in either direction. 
 
Figure 2.17 Risks to achieving and opportunities 
to outperform the Balanced Net Zero Pathway in 
2035 
 
Source: CCC analysis based on BEIS (2020) Energy and Emissions Projections 2019, OBR (2020) Economic and Fiscal 
Outlook – March 2020.  
Notes: Emissions impact of COVID-19 based on a 6% reduction in emissions in 2035. Unknown future inventory 
changes include further changes to global warming potentials and other IPCC guidance that reflects future 
scientific understanding of climate science. We previously estimated the uncertainty in the UK inventory as +3%. 
M&C = manufacturing & construction. BECCS = bioenergy with carbon capture and storage. 
 
If the more back-ended Headwinds scenario is followed in some sectors, or there 
are relatively short delays in decarbonising some sectors, this can potentially be 
compensated for by faster reductions in other sectors (e.g. more behaviour 
change and/or innovation in the other exploratory scenarios). 
It would also be possible to import more sustainable bioenergy on a temporary 
basis (since our Balanced Pathway does not use all available sustainable supply in 
2035), to bring earlier deployment of BECCS, before transitioning to UK-grown 
feedstocks later on. 
 
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
+10
+20
+30
Other Tailwinds
scenario measures
Additional biomass
imports for BECCS
M&C measures
brought earlier
Buildings pathway
delayed by 3 years
M&C pathway
delayed by 3 years
More back-ended
path (e.g. Headwinds)
International
shipping accounting
Unknown future
inventory changes
Future peatland
methodology
Future decision
on AR5 GWPs
Lasting COVID-19 impacts
on emitting activity
'Normal' uncertainty
on emitting activity
Potential
outperformance
Potential
shortfalls
Inventory
Economy
Potential impact in 2035 
(MtCO2e/year)
Budget is easier 
to meet
Budget is more 
challenging
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
86 
We have attempted to quantify the impacts of some known uncertainties, but 
there is clearly a range of unforeseen future outcomes that cannot currently be 
quantified, whether wider mega-trends (e.g. digitalisation, AI, robotics), large-scale 
disasters (e.g. another pandemic or climate-related catastrophes) or unforeseen 
breakthroughs in reducing emissions. 
 
Overall, these uncertainties point towards emissions being potentially lower than 
we have estimated for a given set of policy actions. While the set of actions within 
the Balanced Net Zero Pathway is very stretching, the level of the Sixth Carbon 
Budget that we are recommending could therefore potentially be met even with 
some limited delays in delivery. 
 
Box 2.3 
OBR medium-term scenarios published in July 2020 
In July 2020, the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) published three exploratory 
scenarios for the UK economy and public finances over the medium term.  
 
• The OBR Central scenario assumes some economic scarring resulting in a 3% reduction 
in GDP by 2025 compared to the pre-pandemic forecast. 
• The range of the lasting economic impact of the pandemic in the OBR scenarios is 
zero to 6% lower GDP in 2025.  
The assumption in our analysis is most comparable to the V-shaped recovery shown in the 
‘Upside’ scenario, under which GDP returns quickly to the level projected in March 2020. 
 
The ‘Downside’ scenario, under which GDP in 2025 is 6% below the level consistent with 
our analysis, would allow considerable headroom in the budget where economic activity 
is still coupled to greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: OBR (2020) Fiscal sustainability report July 2020 
 
 
The conservative assumptions 
we have made about 
uncertain factors make it more 
likely that headroom develops 
within the budget rather than 
the budget becoming more 
difficult to achieve. 
87 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
3. Can the UK achieve Net Zero significantly before 2050? 
As well as using our exploratory scenarios to explore a range of ways to achieve 
Net Zero by around 2050, we also combined the more optimistic assumptions on 
societal/behavioural change and on innovation to produce the ‘Tailwinds’ 
scenario, which aims to achieve Net Zero as early as possible.  
 
Tailwinds is a highly optimistic scenario, stretching feasibility in a wide range of 
areas and going beyond the current evidence in others. Even then, this scenario 
only reaches Net Zero in 2042, with a reduction of 87% by 2035 (Figure 2.18).  
 
We consider it unlikely that the Tailwinds scenario could be delivered across the 
board.  
 
It requires that policy works first time, with full effect and in all cases to drive cost 
reductions and changes to behaviour, and that a range of uncertain technologies 
turn out at the better end of the range of expectations. These include: 
• 
Diet change. A 50% reduction in meat and dairy consumption – which is at 
the highest range of our modelled scenarios – and a corresponding 
reduction in emissions from agriculture while releasing additional land for 
carbon sequestration.  
• 
Aviation demand and efficiency. A 15% reduction on 2018 passenger levels 
as well as rapid improvements in efficiency and widespread use of biofuel 
and carbon-neutral synthetic jet fuel by 2050.  
• 
Very low-cost renewable electricity. A further halving of the costs of 
offshore wind and other renewables to £23/MWh by 2050. 
• 
Major improvements to energy- and resource-efficiency across all sectors: 
– The fastest uptake of energy efficiency measures in buildings to the full 
economic potential, in combination with higher efficiency heat 
pumps. 
– All HGVs adopt efficiency measures (compared to an 80% uptake in 
the Balanced Pathway). 
• 
Rapid uptake of new technologies including a 2030 switchover date for 
electric vehicles; widespread acceptance of heat pumps in buildings, with 
innovative solutions for less-suited homes; production and public 
acceptance of lab-grown meat. 
• 
Energy networks and industrial clusters. Rapid roll-out of CCS and hydrogen 
infrastructure at industrial sites, as well as upgrade of electricity grids to 
cope with widespread electrification. 
• 
Land use. Very high rates of tree-planting (70,000 hectares per year) and 
other land-based measures by 2050. 
• 
Engineered removals. The Tailwinds scenario contains the highest level of 
engineered removals in any of our scenarios. Bioenergy with carbon 
capture and storage scales up more quickly, a large increase in sustainable 
biomass imports is assumed, and DACCS is available at commercial scale 
of 15 MtCO2/year by 2050. 
 
The Tailwinds scenario is highly 
optimistic and requires 
everything to go right first time. 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
88 
While Tailwinds outperforms our Balanced Pathway in almost every sector 
(Figure 2.18), it still follows broadly similar dynamics – it is still necessary to scale up 
markets, supply chains and infrastructure and then replace the stock of high-
carbon assets as they come to the ends of their lives. 
 
This reflects genuine limits to what can feasibly be achieved sustainably, while 
minimising the risks associated with going too fast (see Chapter 9, section 4). 
 
The Tailwinds scenario represents the furthest that even a highly optimistic set of 
assumptions can go, without resorting to widespread early scrappage or imposing 
strict limits on individual behaviours. 
 
Figure 2.18 Comparison of sectoral emissions in 
2035 and 2050 for the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
and Tailwinds scenario 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: LULUCF = land use, land-use change and forestry 
 
While faster emissions reductions could conceivably be achieved by including 
such things, they would be inconsistent with the conclusions of the Climate 
Assembly (see Table 1.1 in Chapter 1) and would risk undermining public support 
for the transition to Net Zero.  
 
The technical feasibility of some of the technological and behavioural 
developments assumed in the Tailwinds scenario is uncertain, even with good 
policy in place. The scenario raises the question of whether Net Zero could be 
achieved before 2050, to which we do not yet have a clear answer.  
 
There are genuine limits to the 
pace of change that is 
possible. 
The Tailwinds scenario shows a 
possible scenario for getting to 
Net Zero before 2050, but this is 
highly uncertain. 
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Balanced Net Zero
Pathway
Tailwinds
Balance Net Zero
Pathway
Tailwinds
2035
2050
MtCO2e
F-gases
Waste
LULUCF sources
Agriculture
Manufacturing & construction
Fuel supply
Electricity supply
Non-residential buildings
Residential buildings
Shipping
Aviation
Surface transport
Removals
LULUCF sinks
Total
89 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Given these considerations, we continue to recommend Net Zero by 2050 at the 
latest as the appropriate goal for the UK. Should it become evident later in the 
2020s that we are in a position to be able to take a path closer to that outlined in 
Tailwinds, it may be appropriate to revisit the date of Net Zero. This would require 
most or all of the following: 
• 
Progress in deployment. It is critical that progress is made in the first half of 
the 2020s on reducing emissions across a wide range of areas, in line with – 
or ideally ahead of – our Balanced Net Zero Pathway. 
• 
Behaviours. Policies for the 2020s must be designed to encourage the sorts 
of societal and behaviour changes that would reduce emissions while also 
providing co-benefits in some cases (e.g. to health). These include reduced 
demand for flying and healthier diets that contain significantly less meat 
and dairy, as well as uptake of unfamiliar technologies such as heat pumps. 
Should it turn out that people are willing to embrace these changes, faster 
progress may be possible to reduce emissions.  
• 
Learning by doing. Should the major cost reductions seen in the last 
decade for solar, wind and batteries be repeated in those or other areas 
over the next decade (e.g. in electrolysis, greenhouse gas removals, plus 
further reductions in costs of zero-carbon electricity), emissions could fall 
more quickly. Such cost reductions will require learning-by-doing through 
deployment in the 2020s, supported where necessary by appropriate 
infrastructure (e.g. CO2 infrastructure for greenhouse gas removals). 
• 
Strategic decisions. The Government will need to make decisions on how 
we will decarbonise heating and the future of gas networks in the mid-
2020s, and on heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) shortly thereafter, even under 
the Balanced Pathway. There is no scope for this to slip, especially if 
accelerated progress is intended. 
• 
Breakthroughs. There is also potential scope for more speculative 
breakthroughs that are not even included in the Tailwinds scenarios (e.g. 
cheap and effective feed additives to reduce agricultural methane 
emissions). 
• 
New scientific evidence – for example on the relative warming potential of 
methane or the rate at which UK peatlands emit greenhouse gases – could 
affect the date at which Net Zero could be achieved. 
Until then the priority must be to put in place strong policies to drive changes 
across the board and react to new developments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Zero in 2050 remains the 
right target for the UK. 
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
90 
Box 2.4 
Is it possible to reach Net Zero by 2050 with zero CCS? 
All of the pathways explored in our Sixth Carbon Budget advice see the use of carbon 
capture and storage (CCS) as a critical and cost-effective means of meeting the UK’s 
2050 Net Zero target.  
 
This exploratory ‘what-if’ sensitivity analysis takes a snapshot of emissions in the Tailwinds 
scenario in 2050 only, and illustrates what could happen if the use of CCS was minimised 
across the economy. This sensitivity was not costed or explored prior to 2050, and so is not 
a recommended pathway – particularly as exclusion of CCS is likely to significantly 
increase cumulative emissions over the period to 2050. 
 
 
Figure B2.4 The Tailwinds scenario in 2050 with 
minimal CCS 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Right-hand stack has no use of CCS or Direct Air Capture in any sectors, except for 10 MtCO2/yr of CCS 
across energy from waste plants and some parts of refining and manufacturing. Also uses 60 TWh/yr of biomass 
freed up for biofuels production, and 50 TWh/yr of hydrogen freed up to displace / avoid fossil gas use.  
The Tailwinds scenario, which reaches Net Zero by 2042 in our analysis, is the most 
ambitious scenario on all fronts. The sensitivity in Figure B.2.4 illustrates that it is possible to 
reach Net Zero by adjusting the Tailwinds scenario to limit CCS. However, the minimisation 
of CCS results in Net Zero being achieved around eight years later, in 2050, with no 
potential left to go faster in one sector if another sector under-delivers. This sensitivity has 
particularly acute impacts on the overall level of GHG removals that can be achieved, as 
well as impacts on energy supply, waste and energy-intensive industry: 
 
• CCS-based removals would no longer be possible. Only natural removals (i.e. tree & 
energy crop planting and peatland restoration) and wood in construction can offset 
remaining residual emissions in 2050.  
91 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• The best use of bioenergy would change. Given that bioenergy cannot be used with 
CCS, bioenergy will achieve lower GHG savings. However, 60 TWh/year of biomass 
would now be available that would otherwise have been used to fuel CO 2 capture 
equipment on CCS plant. This biomass could instead be converted into biofuels, 
eliminating residual petroleum emissions in aviation and other parts of the economy. 
• Gas-based power and hydrogen production, without CCS, would no longer be 
consistent with Net Zero. However, most of the hydrogen in the Tailwinds scenario is 
produced via renewable electricity, so this could be manageable under this scenario. 
Additionally, excluding Direct Air Capture frees up 50 TWh/year of low -carbon 
hydrogen, displacing fossil gas use in power and avoiding the use of fossil gas in 
hydrogen production. 
• Parts of manufacturing and refining, and energy from waste plants, would still need to 
use CCS in order to decarbonise, as no other viable low-carbon alternatives are 
available. This would require 10 MtCO2/year to be captured and stored by 2050.  
Furthermore, the reliance only on natural removals to offset remaining positive emissions 
(e.g. in agriculture) means that staying at Net Zero after 2050 would require ever-
increasing natural carbon stocks (e.g. in forests and peatlands), requiring a slow ly but 
ever-increasing area of the UK to be devoted to sequestration. 
 
Overall, this supports our message that CCS is essential to achieving Net Zero, at lowest 
cost, in the UK. The importance of CCS globally further underscores the urgency of 
progressing CCS plans in the UK. 
 
CCS is essential to achieving 
Net Zero. A sensitivity analysis 
shows that getting to Net Zero 
with minimal use of CCS would 
be even more stretching than 
the highly uncertain Tailwinds 
scenario.  
Chapter 2: The UK path to Net Zero 
92 
1 Evans et al. (2019) Implementation of an Emissions Inventory for UK Peatlands. 
2 Myhre, G., D. Shindell, F.-M. Bréon, W. Collins, J. Fuglestvedt, J. Huang, D. Koch, J.-F. Lamarque, D. 
Lee, B. Mendoza, T. Nakajima, A. Robock, G. Stephens, T. Takemura and H. Zhang, 2013: 
Anthropogenic and Natural Radiative Forcing. In: Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change [Stocker, T.F., D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S.K. Allen, J. Boschung, 
A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex and P.M. Midgley (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 
United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA. 
3 CCC (2020) Net Zero after Covid: Behavioural Principles for Building Back Better. 
 
 
93 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Sector pathways to Net Zero 
 
 
1. Surface transport 
96 
2. Buildings 
109 
3. Manufacturing and construction 
125 
4. Electricity generation 
134 
5. Fuel supply 
148 
6. Agriculture and land use, land-use change and forestry 
163 
7. Aviation 
176 
8. Shipping 
182 
9. Waste 
187 
10. F-gases 
194 
11. Greenhouse gas removals 
197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Achieving the Net Zero target requires all sectors of the economy to contribute, 
including international aviation and shipping. This chapter presents the scenarios 
shown in Chapter 2 at a sectoral level and discusses the different options that are 
available within each sector on the transition to Net Zero.  
 
We also discuss the impacts of the choices made in each sector on investment 
requirements, cost savings and the wider co-impacts on society. The economy-
wide impacts, costs and benefits of each scenario are then assessed in more detail 
in Chapter 5 of this report.  
 
Policy recommendations, and additional detail behind the analysis for each sector 
is provided in the accompanying Policy and Methodology Reports.  
 
Key messages 
Our key messages in this Chapter are: 
• 
Delivering Net Zero GHGs by 2050 will require all sectors to contribute.  
• 
Each area of the economy must make substantial changes in the next 
decade to get on the path to Net Zero emissions for the whole of the UK. 
The transition must not be delayed. 
• 
All sectors have multiple options to achieve a level of emissions reduction 
that is consistent with Net Zero by 2050. 
• 
Most sectors can achieve near-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 in 
different ways. For many sectors, the shape of the overall emissions 
trajectory that is required is similar even where very different options are 
deployed (for example the relative uptake of electrification compared to 
the use of low-carbon hydrogen in manufacturing). 
• 
The scenarios for the agriculture, land use, aviation and greenhouse gas 
removals sectors have the most variation in emissions by 2050. The choices 
made in these sectors have greatest impact on the UK’s residual 
greenhouse gas emissions in 2050 and the scale and type of negative 
emissions that are required to offset them. 
• 
Different sector pathways bring different costs, benefits and impacts. The 
choices made in each sector have wide-ranging impacts, including costs, 
cost savings and co-impacts on society. Policymakers should look to 
maximise the positive co-impacts of decarbonising each sector.  
 
The analysis underpinning our key messages is set out for each of the following 
sectors in this chapter: 
 
1. Surface transport 
2. Buildings 
3. Manufacturing & construction 
4. Electricity generation 
5. Fuel supply 
6. Agriculture and land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) 
7. Aviation 
8. Shipping 
9. Waste  
10. F-gases  
11. Greenhouse gas removals 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
96 
1. Surface transport 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Surface transport GHG emissions were 113 MtCO2e in 2019, comprising 22% of total 
UK GHG emissions. This could fall to 32 MtCO2e by 2035 in our Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway. Delivering this transition will require take-up of low-carbon technologies, 
low-carbon fuels and efficiency improvements for petrol and diesel vehicles and 
behaviour change to reduce travel demand and shift journeys onto lower-carbon 
modes of transport. 
 
Achieving this reduction will require significant investment in technology and 
infrastructure but these will be more than offset by savings in operational 
expenditure, delivering an estimated net benefit to consumers of £8 billion per year 
in 2035. 
 
Our assessment is based on detailed modelling, literature review and stakeholder 
engagement. We commissioned Element Energy to assess trajectories for uptake of 
zero-carbon options for HGVs.  
 
The rest of this section is set out in three parts:  
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for surface transport 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s  
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, benefits and co-impacts on society 
 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for surface transport 
 
In our Balanced Pathway, options to reduce emissions, including take-up of zero-
emission technologies and reduction in travel demand, combine to reduce 
surface transport emissions by around 70% to 32 MtCO2e by 2035 and to 
approximately 1 MtCO2e by 2050 (Figure 3.1.a). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surface transport is currently 
the UK’s highest emitting 
sector. 
97 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.1.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the surface  
Transport sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
The Balanced Pathway covers low-cost, low-regret options as well as more 
challenging and/or more expensive measures needed to meet Net Zero (Table 
3.1.a). The key elements of this are: 
• 
Reduction in car travel. Our demand scenarios are based on modelling by 
the UK Centre for Research into Energy Demand Solutions (CREDS), along 
with other literature and evidence across UK cities and in other countries. 
Compared to baseline growth, we assume that approximately 9% of car 
miles can be reduced (e.g. through increased home-working) or shifted to 
lower-carbon modes (such as walking, cycling and public transport) by 
2035, increasing to 17% by 2050. The opportunities presented to lock-in 
positive behaviours seen during the COVID-19 pandemic and societal and 
technological changes to reduce demand (e.g. shared mobility and focus 
on broadband rather than road-building) are key enablers. 
• 
Cars and vans. A high take-up of electric vehicles (EVs), resulting in the end 
of sales of new conventional cars, vans and plug-in hybrids (PHEVs) by 2032 
at the latest. From 2030, regulatory approval to drive fossil fuel cars, vans 
and motorbikes should be limited to 2050 so that remaining fossil fuel 
vehicles are removed from the fleet at that point. High take-up of EVs will 
require significant roll-out of charge points: 
 
Factors such as increased 
home-working and greater use 
of active modes of transport 
could reduce UK demand for 
car travel. 
Sales of new petrol and diesel 
cars and vans, including plug-
in hybrids, should end by 2032 
at the latest. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
98 
– The number of battery-electric vehicles (BEVs) will need to scale up 
rapidly in the 2020s from 5% of new sales today, reaching 100% by 2032 
at the latest. By 2035, we estimate that there could be around 28 
million EVs on the road*, comprising 25 million BEVs and 3 million PHEVs. 
– Analysis shows that BEVs have considerably lower lifecycle emissions 
than petrol and diesel cars, but that PHEVs are only marginally better 
(see the Methodology Report). 
– Charge points for electric vehicles will also need to be scaled up 
rapidly in the 2020s to support the phase-out of new petrol and diesel 
cars and vans by the early 2030s. These will comprise a mix of private 
chargers at homes and workplaces and public on-street charge points 
for those without off-street parking, around towns and cities for top-up 
charging and on the strategic road network for longer-distance inter-
urban charging. The most cost-effective mix is expected to focus 
primarily on 22kW, 50kW, 150kW and 350kW chargers (Figure 3.1.b). 
 
Figure 3.1.b Total electric cars on the road and 
supporting charging infrastructure in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 2020 figures based on DfT, OLEV, SMMT and Zap-Map statistics. 
Notes: Includes all small, medium and large cars and all publicly accessible charge points in the Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway. 
 
 
 
*   This is based on car ownership forecasts from the Department of Transport’s National Transport Model, which 
anticipate growth in line with population and GDP. If rates of car ownership fall, then the total number of electric 
cars could be lower. 
By 2035, there could be 25 
million fully electric cars on UK 
roads. 
Significant public charging 
infrastructure needs to be 
rolled out during the 2020s and 
2030s, including on-street 
charging for those without 
private car-parking and inter-
urban infrastructure for 
charging during long journeys. 
99 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Heavy goods vehicles. There is currently considerable uncertainty over the 
most cost-effective and feasible decarbonisation option for heavy goods 
vehicles (HGVs), and Government will need to fund large-scale trials of 
different technologies to gain a better understanding of options and for the 
market to develop. We commissioned Element Energy to assess trajectories 
and costs for the roll-out of zero-emission HGVs to 2050.1 Based on this 
evidence, our Balanced Pathway assumes that the roll-out of zero-emission 
HGVs accelerates to reach nearly 100% of sales by 2040. Decisions on the 
UK approach to HGVs must also integrate with the decarbonisation 
strategies in mainland Europe. The scenario will require: 
– Zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) to make up 96% of new sales of HGVs, 
buses and coaches by 2035 and almost 100% by 2040. 
– There to be around 170,000 zero-emission HGVs and coaches 
(approximately 33% of the fleet) in operation by 2035, rising to 67% of 
the fleet by 2040. 
– Public infrastructure to support this, which is likely to require over 300 
ultra-rapid public charge points and 100 hydrogen refuelling stations 
by 2035, increasing to around 650 and 250 respectively by 2040. These 
are in addition to depot charge points and refuelling facilities. 
 
Emissions reductions in the Balanced Pathway are also delivered through improved 
efficiency of conventional vehicles, logistics improvements and decarbonisation of 
the rail network: 
• 
Efficiency improvements. New petrol and diesel cars, vans and HGVs 
continue to be fitted with cost-effective technologies and design 
improvements to improve fuel efficiency, leading to reductions in CO2 
intensity of 12% (cars and vans) and 21% (HGVs) for new models by 2030. 
Biofuels are used in surface transport, with E10 petrol introduced from 2021. 
Biofuels are phased out from cars and vans by 2040 and in HGVs by 2050 as 
they are best used in other sectors. 
• 
Shifts in van usage. Van travel is the fastest growing sector, with total van 
miles increasing by 70% since 2000.2 Around a quarter of this can be 
explained by the growth in internet sales and the associated parcel 
delivery sector. We assume that 3% of van miles can be reduced by 2035 
through measures such as last-mile deliveries by portering/e-cargo bikes, 
micro-consolidation centres in urban areas, reduction in delivery failures, 
use of experienced driver and routing technologies and encouragement of 
‘green’ delivery choices. 
• 
HGV logistics. There is potential for HGV logistics measures to reduce miles 
driven by lorries, through measures such as expanded use of consolidation 
centres, extended delivery windows, higher loading and reduced empty-
running. Our Balanced Pathway, drawn from a study by the Centre for 
Sustainable Road Freight3, assumes a reduction in total HGV miles of 
around 10% by 2035 through these measures. 
• 
Buses. Take-up of low-carbon buses and infrastructure is already occurring 
across the UK. The Confederation of Passenger Transport (the trade body 
for bus and coach operators) has set a target for all new buses to be ultra-
low or zero-emission by 2025. Our Balanced Pathway assumes that all sales 
of new buses are zero-carbon (largely hydrogen or BEV) by 2035. 
 
Decarbonisation options for 
heavy-goods vehicles include 
battery-electric trucks, 
hydrogen fuel-cell trucks, and 
overhead catenary systems.  
Greater use of consolidation, 
changes to supply chains and 
innovations such as e-cargo 
bikes could lower the adverse 
impacts of road freight. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
100 
• 
Rail. Government has set an ambition to phase out diesel trains by 2040, 
while the Rail Industry Decarbonisation Taskforce (supported by the Rail 
Safety and Standards Board) published pathways to decarbonise rail in 
2019. Our Balanced Pathway assumes the Government ambition is 
achieved for passenger rail, with almost half of the network electrified 
where this is cost-effective and a mix of hydrogen, battery-electric and 
electric hybrid trains replacing existing diesel trains where it is not. Several 
key freight corridors are also electrified. These measures combine to reduce 
emissions from rail by around 55% by 2035. 
 
Table 3.1.a 
Summary of key assumptions used for the Balanced Net Zero Pathway in 2035 
 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway – assumptions in 2035 
Behaviour change 
and demand 
reduction 
• Total car miles fall by 9% by 2035 relative to the baseline. This is driven by modal shift from 
cars to walking, cycling (including e-bikes) or public transport, an increase in average 
car occupancy and a reduction in travel from factors such as increased working from 
home. 
• For vans, demand is reduced by 3% through measures such as increased use of urban 
consolidation centres and e-cargo bikes. 
• Factors such as improved logistics lead to 10% lower total HGV miles, relative to baseline 
forecasts. 
Efficiency 
• The average real-world CO2 intensity of new conventional cars and vans needs to 
improve by around 12% relative to today’s levels, before these are phased out in the 
early 2030s. 
• Efficiency of new HGVs increases by up to 21% through measures such as improved 
aerodynamics and lighter-weight construction. Most existing HGVs realise efficiency 
savings of 13-22% due to measures including retrofitting aerodynamic improvements 
and eco-driving training. 
• 47% of the UK’s railways are electrified by 2035, and diesel engines are 18% more 
efficient than today. 
Low-carbon 
technology 
• Sales of new petrol and diesel cars and vans (including PHEVs) are phased out by 2032 
at the latest. BEVs make up 64% of all cars and 68% of all vans on the road. 
• Zero-emission HGVs comprise 96% of all sales and 99% of bus and coach sales are zero-
emission. Diesel vehicles still comprise 67% of the HGV fleet. 
• All diesel trains have been removed from operations on category A passenger routes. 
These are mostly replaced by electric trains, with increasing numbers of battery-electric 
trains. Electric and diesel-electric trains make up 44% of the freight fleet. 
 
 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s  
 
There are alternative technical or behavioural approaches that could deliver 
emissions reductions. These are represented in our exploratory scenarios, which 
consider how emissions can be reduced across a variety of consumer and 
technology contexts (Figure 3.1.c and Table 3.1.b). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
101 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.1.c Emissions pathways for the surface 
transport sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Baseline emissions begin slightly higher than the latest outturn data – this is because our scenario modelling is 
calibrated against DfT’s National Transport Model, which uses a base year of 2017. 
 
These scenarios demonstrate that options remain to go further in some areas as 
technology choices and the extent of possible behaviour change become 
clearer. 
• 
Greater reductions in travel demand through a higher shift to lower-carbon 
travel modes, ride-sharing solutions or societal shifts would mean that fewer 
electric cars and vans would be needed, with corresponding savings on EV 
capital costs and in charging investment and running costs. 
– Our most ambitious scenario for car demand results in a reduction in 
miles driven of 34% by 2050 relative to baseline demand. This is 
achieved through greater ambition on modal shift to active travel and 
public transport, a higher level of car-sharing and higher behavioural 
change through measures such as working from home and a 
reduction in business trips through greater use of technology. 
– Across our scenarios, the assumed demand reductions are partially 
offset by rebound effects due to the fuel cost savings from EVs, which 
are much cheaper to run than fossil fuel vehicles. 
 
 
Higher levels of demand 
reduction could be achieved 
through significant investment 
in active travel, enabling 
widespread behavioural 
change. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
102 
• 
There are also risks that travel demand could be higher than in our 
Balanced Pathway. We have modelled this in the Widespread Innovation 
scenario, where the introduction of connected and autonomous vehicles 
(CAVs) is assumed to lead to higher travel demand through improved 
mobility options and better utilisation of road space. In this scenario, overall 
car demand is 5% higher than in the baseline by 2050. 
• 
An earlier switchover date for ending petrol and diesel cars sales could be 
possible and deliver cost reduction and emissions benefits. 
– Our analysis suggests that new electric cars and vans are likely to be 
cost-saving from a social perspective during the 2020s, with upfront 
cost-parity reached by 2030. On this basis, the cumulative costs of 
passenger cars and vans are likely to be lower if the end of sales is 
brought forward to 2030 compared with a later date (Figure 3.1.d). 
– A 2032 phase-out is expected to deliver almost 90 MtCO2e lower 
cumulative emissions and £6 billion additional cost-savings across the 
period from 2020-2050, compared to continuing to allow conventional 
vehicles to be sold until 2035. Moving the phase-out date forward to 
2030 could deliver even larger cost savings and a small amount of 
further abatement. 
 
Figure 3.1.d Impacts of alternative phase-out  
dates for new petrol and diesel cars and vans 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Comparison between the annual cost to society (cost of vehicles, infrastructure, fuel and maintenance) of 
the EV transition under three phase-out dates for new petrol and diesel car and van sales (including PHEVs): i) 2030; 
ii) 2032 (as in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway); and iii) 2035. 
 
Electric cars and vans are 
likely to be cost-saving for 
society by the end of the 
decade. 
Phasing out the sale of new 
conventional cars and vans 
earlier in the 2030s is expected 
to reduce emissions and 
deliver increased cost savings. 
103 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Our scenarios consider the impact of various phase-out dates for new 
petrol and diesel vehicles: 2032 in the Balanced Pathway; 2035 in 
Headwinds; and 2030 in all other scenarios (Figure 3.1.e). Analysis and 
evidence suggest that raw materials and supply chains can scale up to 
support a phase-out of all new petrol and diesel cars and vans by 2032 (see 
Methodology Report), and there is a clear economic and climate case to 
deliver it by then at the latest. 
• 
Our scenarios all assume that PHEVs are phased out at the same time as 
conventional fossil fuel vehicles. If this does not occur and PHEVs are 
instead allowed to be sold for longer, there is a risk that this could lead to 
greater uptake of PHEVs and undermine the switchover to fully zero-
emission options. Real-world emissions from PHEVs are often only marginally 
lower than emissions from conventional vehicles.  
 
Figure 3.1.e Proportion of all new car sales that 
are battery-electric vehicles 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Includes all new sales of small, medium and large cars – note that EV uptake in the Tailwinds scenario is 
aligned to the Widespread Innovation scenario. 
 
• 
Our Balanced Pathway for HGVs assumes the most cost-effective 
technologies are taken up, resulting in a mix of hydrogen and battery-
electric vehicles using ultra-rapid chargers. Our exploratory scenarios 
consider HGV costs and take-up under alternative technological 
development assumptions (Figure 3.1.f). 
 
Battery-electric cars are 
expected to make up over 
90% of all new sales by 2030. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
104 
– In each exploratory scenario there is focus on one main zero-carbon 
technology: in Headwinds, hydrogen refuelling stations are the only 
publicly available refuelling option; Widespread Engagement focuses 
on battery-electric with ultra-rapid public chargers; and Widespread 
Innovation assumes an electric road system (ERS) with both BEV and 
hydrogen vehicles recharging at depots. 
– Each of battery-electric, hydrogen and ERS could play a role in 
decarbonising the HGV sector. Small rigid trucks are likely to 
predominantly adopt BEVs, while hydrogen or ERS could be valuable 
for heavier vehicles with longer range requirements. By 2050, BEVs with 
ultra-rapid public chargers are likely to become the cost-optimal 
choice. 
– Whichever technologies emerge, there needs to be significant HGV 
infrastructure investment in the 2020s and 2030s. This will give 
confidence to fleet operators that they will be able to refuel as part of 
their daily operations. The total investment requirement (including the 
cost of infrastructure and new vehicles, and comprising both public 
and private investment) is estimated to be £35-65 billion across the 
period 2020-2050, which is expected to be partly offset by operational 
savings of £30-55 billion. 
 
Figure 3.1.f Proportion of all new HGV sales in  
2035 by powertrain type 
 
Source: Element Energy analysis for the CCC (2020). 
Notes: Assumes that sufficient financial support is available to make zero-emission options cost-competitive versus 
diesel vehicles from 2035.  
 
 
At least one zero-emission 
option for HGVs is likely to be 
suitable for 90%+ of fleet 
operators by 2035. 
Battery-electric HGVs are likely 
to be cost-optimal eventually, 
but battery technology will 
need to continue to develop 
for this to be achieved. 
105 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 3.1.b 
Summary of key differences between our scenarios for the surface transport sector 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Behaviour 
change and 
demand 
reduction* 
Moderate 
behavioural 
change, with 
gradual 
reduction up to 
17% of total car 
miles by 2050 
Limited levels of 
behavioural 
change, with 
car demand 
falling to 12% 
below baseline 
by 2050 
High demand 
reduction, 
modal shift and 
ride-sharing, 
leading to 34% 
lower car 
demand and 
11% higher rail 
demand by 2050 
Introduction of 
connected and 
autonomous 
vehicles leads to 
a net 5% 
increase in total 
car demand by 
2050 
High levels of 
societal change 
leading to a 34% 
reduction in car 
demand by 2050 
Efficiency 
 
(in addition 
to efficiency 
improvemen
ts for new 
ICEs, which 
are 
assumed in 
all 
scenarios) 
80% of HGVs 
adopt efficiency 
measures; up to 
200km/year of 
rail 
electrification 
and diesel 
efficiency 
improving by 
2050 to 
0.5kgCO2/kWh 
(from current 
levels of 
0.8kgCO2/kWh) 
Slower BEV 
uptake so higher 
biofuel use; 50% 
of HGVs adopt 
efficiency 
measures; up to 
200km/year of 
rail electrification 
and diesel 
efficiency 
improving by 
2050 to 
0.5kgCO2/kWh 
80% of HGVs 
adopt efficiency 
measures; up to 
250km/year of 
rail electrification 
and diesel 
efficiency 
improving by 
2050 to 
0.5kgCO2/kWh 
80% of HGVs 
adopt efficiency 
measures; up to 
200km/year of 
rail electrification 
and higher 
diesel efficiency 
improvements to 
0.45kgCO2/kWh 
by 2050 
All HGVs adopt 
efficiency 
measures; up to 
250km/year of 
rail electrification 
and higher 
diesel efficiency 
improvements to 
0.45kgCO2/kWh 
by 2050 
Low-carbon 
technology 
2032 phase-out 
date for fossil 
fuel cars and 
vans; no clear 
technology 
choice for HGVs, 
so most cost-
effective 
technology mix 
is deployed 
2035 phase-out 
of fossil fuel cars 
and vans; large-
scale use of 
hydrogen in 
HGVs 
2030 phase-out 
of fossil fuel cars 
and vans, with 
rapid EV uptake 
driven by 
engagement; 
deployment of a 
substantial ERS 
network for 
HGVs 
2030 phase-out 
of fossil fuel cars 
and vans, with 
rapid EV uptake 
driven by cost 
reductions; 
battery density 
and cost 
improve leading 
to high use of 
BEV HGVs with 
ultra-rapid 
charging 
2030 phase-out 
of fossil fuel cars 
and vans, with 
rapid EV uptake 
driven by cost 
reductions; max 
roll-out rates for 
technology and 
infrastructure 
allow 
deployment of 
mix of low-
carbon HGV 
options at pace 
 
 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, benefits and co-impacts on 
society 
 
Delivering the Balanced Pathway results in a cost saving to the economy of £8 
billion in 2035 compared with a theoretical counterfactual without any action on 
emissions, as investment costs are offset by lower operational expenditure (Figure 
3.1.g). Most measures in the Balanced Pathway are cost-effective.  
• 
Average lifetime abatement costs for the key surface transport sectors are 
cost-effective at BEIS carbon values (Table 3.1.c). 
 
 
 
 
 
* These figures are before rebound effects, which will increase demand as EV uptake grows, due to lower fuel costs. 
The transition to zero-emission 
vehicles will lead to an overall 
annual saving of £8 billion in 
2035. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
106 
Table 3.1.c 
Abatement costs for key surface transport sectors in 2035 (£/tCO2e) 
 
Average abatement cost 
across fleet 
Marginal abatement costs for a new measure 
Conventional vehicle 
efficiency 
New battery-electric 
vehicle 
Cars 
2 
-8 
-13 
Vans 
-19 
-14 
-22 
HGVs 
52 
-38 
212 
• 
Significant investment in vehicles and charging infrastructure starting from 
now and rising to £12 billion per year in 2035 will be required. Investment 
costs continue to rise to 2050 as zero-emission technology and infrastructure 
is rolled out. This includes both public investment (including on deployment 
of public charging infrastructure) and private expenditure (such as for 
purchase of vehicles). 
• 
As EVs are much more efficient than conventional vehicles, these will be 
offset by lower operational expenditure from around 2030, with annual 
operating cost savings of around £20 billion in 2035. 
 
Figure 3.1.g Additional capital expenditure and  
operational cost savings in the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway  
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Chart displays in-year societal capital and operational cost impacts relative to the baseline. Segments 
above the horizontal axis represent additional capital expenditure (infrastructure and the purchase of new 
vehicles), while segments below the horizontal axis represent operational cost savings (reduced consumption, 
efficiency improvements and fuel / maintenance cost savings). 
 
 
 
The annual capital cost of 
decarbonising transport will be 
£12 billion in 2035. This includes 
public investment in charging 
infrastructure and private 
spending on new vehicles. 
Drivers will benefit from 
operational savings totalling 
£20 billion per year in 2035. 
107 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
By 2025 we estimate that a new battery-electric car will be cost-saving compared 
with a petrol or diesel car over the lifetime of the vehicle, even when including 
costs of developing charging infrastructure and upgrading power networks to deal 
with increased demand for electricity and taking account of the need to replace 
exchequer revenue from fuel duty (Figure 3.1.h). 
• 
A typical BEV car today is around 35% more expensive to purchase than a 
comparable conventional car. By 2030, we expect these upfront costs to 
reach parity, and by 2035 a typical BEV would offer a small upfront cost 
saving. 
• 
Over the lifetime of the vehicle, the total societal cost of fuel for a typical 
conventional car is around £2,900. By comparison, the cost of electricity is 
lower at around £2,200. If fuel duty is included, the cost saving to a private 
owner is around £6,700 (around £500 per annum) in cash terms. 
• 
BEVs have fewer moving parts, so also typically have lower maintenance 
costs than conventional vehicles. This can save the owner up to £170 per 
year. 
• 
The cost of installing a home charger is expected to fall by around 25% by 
2035. 
 
Figure 3.1.h Cost comparison for new BEV, PHEV  
and conventional vehicles in 2030  
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Societal costs are discounted at the social discount rate of 3.5% and represent net costs to society over the 
lifetime of the vehicle (i.e. excluding taxes and duties). Private costs are discounted at a private discount rate of 
7.5% and include all taxes and duties.  
Battery costs are falling rapidly. 
By 2030, a battery-electric car 
is expected to be no more 
expensive to purchase than a 
conventional vehicle. 
The electricity required to 
power an electric vehicle is 
significantly cheaper than 
petrol or diesel. 
In 2030, the total cost of 
owning an electric car will be 
substantially lower than that 
for a petrol or diesel vehicle. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
108 
 
In addition to significant emissions reductions and operating cost savings, many of 
the measures we outline have wider benefits to society: 
• 
Reduced demand for car travel and improved delivery logistics will lead to 
lower levels of congestion and better air quality, particularly in urban areas. 
• 
Switching to active forms of travel, such as walking and cycling, should 
offer health and wellbeing benefits. 
• 
Widespread uptake of zero-emission vehicles will deliver improvements in 
air quality (particularly in NO2 and CO2) and noise reduction. 
 
 
 
Demand reduction, shifts to 
lower-carbon modes of 
transport and widespread EV 
uptake will bring significant co-
benefits alongside emissions 
reduction. 
109 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
2. Buildings 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Direct buildings emissions were 87 MtCO2e in 2019. Progress in delivering emissions 
reductions has broadly flatlined since 2015, when comparing on a temperature 
adjusted basis.  
 
Our pathways to 2050 aim to reduce emissions in buildings to zero by 2050 at the 
latest, based on the findings of our Net Zero report. They also aim to ensure 
buildings of the future are comfortable, healthy spaces to be year-round, which 
are resilient to overheating and other climate risks. 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway reflects four priorities over the coming decade or 
so: 
• 
Deliver on the Government’s energy efficiency plans to upgrade all 
buildings to EPC C over the next 10-15 years. 
• 
Scale up the market for heat pumps as a critical technology for 
decarbonising space heating, while maintaining quality.  
• 
Expand the rollout of low-carbon heat networks in heat dense areas like 
cities, using anchor loads such as hospitals and schools. Prepare to shift 
away from using fossil fuel Combined Heat and Power (CHP) as a supply-
source towards low-carbon and waste heat by preference from the mid-
2020s. 
• 
Prepare for a potential role for hydrogen in heat through a set of trials 
building on the current innovation programme. 
 
This programme requires a major ramp-up from what is happening today in supply 
chains for insulation, heat pumps and heat networks. Our detailed analysis 
demonstrates that this is feasible: 
• 
We commissioned Element Energy to undertake bottom-up modelling of 
heat decarbonisation for existing homes. Alongside modelling undertaken 
in house, the assessment indicates that delivering net zero emissions in 
buildings is feasible. 
• 
This assessment is underpinned by the latest available evidence on the cost 
and performance of measures, and on deployment constraints, informed 
by a literature review and through evidence gathering from expert 
stakeholders.  
• 
The installation rates for insulation measures such as lofts and cavity walls 
are within the range previously achieved under the supplier obligations in 
the early 2010s. Solid wall installation rates are more ambitious but 
considered achievable with strong policy in our testing with stakeholders.  
 
The rest of this section is set out in three parts:  
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for buildings 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s  
c) Impacts of the Scenarios – costs and benefits 
 
 
Our pathways reduce 
emissions in buildings to zero 
by 2050 at the latest, whilst 
adapting to a changing 
climate. 
 
They require a major ramp up 
in supply chains for insulation, 
heat pumps and heat 
networks, which our analysis 
shows is feasible. 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
110 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for buildings 
 
Across all buildings, around 34% of abatement to 2030 comes from energy 
efficiency measures, with a growing share of abatement from low-carbon heating, 
which dominates the picture from 2028 on (Figure 3.2.a). Buildings shift on to low-
carbon heat networks, high efficiency and flexible electrification, along with some 
hydrogen near industrial clusters from 2030. 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway takes Government policy priorities as its starting 
point – in particular the plans to improve the energy efficiency of all buildings over 
the next 10-15 years, to phase-out the installation of new high-carbon fossil fuels in 
the 2020s, and to expand heat networks through to 2050. We have assessed what 
additional levers are required in order to remove all remaining fossil fuel emissions 
from buildings, while minimising costs and disruption: 
• 
Minimising costs and disruption means working as much as possible with 
existing technology lifetimes – particularly the heating technology stock.  
• 
At the same time, we want to move quickly enough to be able to reach 
Net Zero without scrapping existing heating systems.  
 
Figure 3.2.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for Buildings 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas statistics 2019; Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development 
of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to inform the sixth carbon budget; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Residential low-carbon heat includes some efficiency associated with new homes. Non-residential energy 
efficiency also includes some behavioural measures. Non-residential other includes catering and other non-heat 
fossil fuel uses. 
 
 
 
 
Our pathways take 
Government policy as their 
starting point: including the 
major programme to improve 
the efficiency of buildings and 
phase out oil and coal 
heating. 
 
Buildings shift on to low-carbon 
heat networks, high efficiency 
and flexible electrification, 
along with some hydrogen 
near industrial clusters. 
 
We look at a set of additional 
policy levers: a phase out date 
for the installation of natural 
gas boilers in 2033, along with 
new standards on mortgage 
lenders and at point of sale to 
drive efficiency renovations in
111 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Given boiler lifetimes of around 15 years, we have looked at phasing out the 
installation of fossil fuel boilers, in advance of 2035. We adopt a central date of 
2033 for gas boilers across buildings, with public buildings moving faster: 
• 
For homes, we pick a central phase out date of 2028 for high-carbon fossil 
fuel boilers not connected to the gas grid, and a phase out date of 2033 
for gas boilers.  
• 
The key date of 2033 balances the need to scale up heat pump supply 
chains sustainably, while allowing for a small amount of headroom over a 
typical 15-year boiler stock turnover before 2050. 
• 
In non-residential buildings we use 2025 for high-carbon fossil fuel boilers in 
public buildings and 2026 in commercial buildings, based on the feasibility 
and benefits of moving faster. We use phase out dates for gas boilers of 
2033 in commercial buildings and 2030 in public buildings in the Balanced 
pathway. The faster pace in public buildings allows the Government to 
meet its targeted 50% reduction in emissions by 2032.  
• 
These dates operate alongside the deployment of low-carbon heat 
networks and a regional rollout of hydrogen conversion of the gas grid, 
informed by our industry scenarios. This means that the phase-out does not 
apply in any areas designated for these alternatives. 
 
The other key dates are then based on the need to build critical supply chains and 
skills, and prepare the building stock for the transition to low-carbon heating, with 
most of the energy efficiency programme completed by the time fossil fuel boiler 
installations are phased out from 2033 (Table 3.2.a). 
 
 This energy efficiency programme is also underpinned by a timetable of standards 
–rented homes achieve EPC C by 2028 in line with new Government proposals, 
with social homes aligned to the same timetable.  
 
We test two new policy proposals for the two-thirds of homes which are owner-
occupied, and therefore not covered by existing proposals outside of Scotland. 
This includes a requirement on lenders to first report on and then improve the 
average efficiency of their mortgage portfolios, covering just under half of the 
owner-occupied stock. A further subset are captured by regulations at point of 
sale, drawing on proposals published by the Scottish Government. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
112 
1.11 
Table 3.2.a  
Implications in the Balanced Pathway for buildings 
and  
 
Balanced 
Net Zero 
Pathway 
date 
Scenario implications 
Efficiency 
All new buildings are zero-
carbon 
2025 at 
the latest 
100% of buildings built with high-levels of energy efficiency and 
low-carbon heating (e.g. heat pumps or low-carbon heat 
networks). 
Rented homes achieve EPC C 
2028 
Rented homes to achieve EPC C by 2028, such that all 
practicable lofts and cavities are insulated alongside other 
low-regret measures, with solid wall insulation deployed where 
this supports low-carbon heat and wider benefits.  
Standards for lenders targeting 
EPC C across the housing 
portfolio 
2025 - 
2033 
Homes with mortgages achieve EPC C by 2033, such that all 
practicable lofts and cavities are insulated alongside other 
low-regret measures, with solid wall insulation deployed where 
this supports low-carbon heat and wider benefits. This covers 
just under half of all owner-occupied homes. 
All homes for sale EPC C 
2028 
No dwellings can be sold unless they meet the minimum 
standard. At the current housing turnover of once every ten 
years for mortgagors and once every 24 years for outright 
owners, regulations at point of sale would be expected to 
result in a further 15% of owner occupied homes meeting the 
required standard by 2035 (with further upgrades driven by the 
standards on lenders, totalling at least 60% of owner-occupiers 
overall).  
All commercial efficiency 
renovations completed 
2030 
All energy efficiency improvements are made by 2030 to meet 
the Government’s target of reducing business and industrial 
energy consumption by 20%. 
Heating 
All boilers are hydrogen-ready 
2025 
By 2025 at the latest, all new gas boilers are hydrogen-ready. 
Oil and coal phase out  
(outside of any zones 
designated for low-carbon 
district heat) 
2028 
100% of heating system sales off the gas grid are low-carbon 
from 2028, with exemptions for any buildings in zones 
designated for low-carbon district heat. Earlier dates may be 
possible in public and commercial buildings. 
Natural gas phase out  
(outside of zones designated 
for low-carbon district heat or 
hydrogen-conversion) 
2033 
100% of heating system sales are low-carbon from 2033, with 
exemptions for any buildings in zones designated for low-
carbon district heat or hydrogen-conversion. We assume an 
earlier date of 2030 in public buildings so as to achieve the 
Clean Growth Strategy target of 50% emission reduction by 
2032. 
CHP phase out for low-carbon 
district heat  
2025 
Currently, around 93% of district heat networks use a fossil fuel-
based primary fuel source. We assume that all new district 
heat network connections from 2025 are low-carbon. All heat 
networks supplied by legacy CHP schemes convert to low-
carbon heat sources by 2040.  
 
Notes: The fossil phase-out dates drive uptake of building-scale low-carbon heating – predominantly heat pumps, with some flexible resistive 
electric heating such as storage heating and panels.  
 
 
 
 
 
113 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Energy efficiency in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
The household energy efficiency programme in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
corresponds to a similar level of ambition as the Government’s EPC C targets: 
• 
It entails £55 billion of investment in home energy efficiency to 2050.  
• 
BEIS’s published estimate of £35-65 billion to achieve the EPC C standard 
implies a broadly consistent level of ambition. 
• 
It remains important that EPCs are reformed to ensure they drive the energy 
efficiency measures needed, as detailed in our accompanying Policy 
report.  
 
In total, 15 million households receive one of the main insulation measures 
(loft/wall/floor) and a further 8 million benefit from draught-proofing. Most homes 
with hot water tanks benefit from hot water tank insulation. All fuel poor homes 
receive a high efficiency upgrade: 
• 
We deploy low-cost measures such as draft proofing and hot water tank 
insulation in all homes, as well as insulating all practicable cavities and lofts 
(including top-ups where existing insulation is below 200mm).  
• 
Our assessment is that this leads to the deployment of around 3 million 
cavity insulation measures and 11 million loft insulation measures to 2050.  
• 
We include solid wall insulation in just under half of all uninsulated solid-
walled homes (3.4 million in total) including all those in fuel poverty.  
 
Energy efficiency and behavioural measures in our Balanced Pathway deliver a 
12% reduction in heat demand to 2050 (compared to a 22% reduction in our 
Tailwinds scenario).* This is a conservative estimate which reflects how measures 
are currently performing when installed in existing homes (further detailed in the 
accompanying Method report). Higher savings are possible with greater 
improvements in tackling the performance gap, innovation and public 
engagement. 
 
There remains uncertainty over the balance of costs and benefits for wall insulation 
in solid walled homes in particular, as well as levels of public support. This includes 
uncertainty over the energy savings which can be achieved and the potential for 
innovative new approaches which minimise cost and disruption (detailed in the 
separate Methodology report). Further research is needed here to inform 
deployment. To the extent there is any under delivery of solid wall insulation relative 
to our scenarios, the abatement would need to be delivered in other ways e.g. 
through increased uptake or performance of other energy efficiency measures, or 
through a faster rate of heat pump deployment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   This represents an aggregate reduction in heat demand across the stock, taking into account technical and 
economic potential, and is not reflective of the savings which might be delivered in an individual home which has 
minimal existing insulation. A typical household in our Balanced Pathway which installs cavity wall insulation, loft 
insulation, and floor insulation sees heat demand savings of 30%, while very deep retrofits might deliver savings in the 
region of 57% (Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation 
to inform the sixth carbon budget). The lower stock-level heat demand savings relative to our Net Zero analysis 
reflect a number of factors, including updated savings assumptions based on data from the National Energy 
Efficiency Database, and the latest evidence on costs and technical and economic potential. These factors lead to 
lower deployment relative to Net Zero, but similar deployment to that modelled for the Fifth Carbon Budget. 
Our assumed household 
energy efficiency programme 
over the next 10-15 years is 
broadly in line with 
Government ambition. 
15 million homes get one of 
the main measures 
(wall/roof/floor insulation). 
We conservatively estimate 
heat efficiency savings of 12% 
based on evidence of how 
measures currently performed 
when installed. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
114 
The timetable associated with our Balanced Net Zero Pathway allows for rapid 
scale-up of supply chains for critical insulation measures (Figure 3.2.b): 
• 
Total loft insulations rise rapidly from just 27,000 lofts insulated in the past 
year to back to over 700,000 installations per year by 2025. This compares to 
1.6 million which were insulated in 2012 under the supplier obligations. 
• 
The rate of cavity wall insulation rises from 41,000 cavities to over 200,000 a 
year by 2025. 
• 
Solid wall insulation measures also increase to just over 250,000 a year by 
2025 from just 11,000 in the past year. This puts us on track for insulating 3.4 
million by 2050, or just under half of the total UK stock of solid wall buildings. 
 
Figure 3.2.b Uptake of heating efficiency  
measures in existing homes 
 
Source: Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to 
inform the sixth carbon budget. 
Notes: This does not include measures which save other electrical demand such as LEDs, wet and cold appliances. 
Behavioural measures include multi-zonal heating controls and pre-heating (i.e. turning heating on early, off-peak). 
 
Our non-residential building scenarios include a 27% reduction in energy 
consumption compared to our 2018 baseline. In our Balanced Pathway, 
commercial energy efficiency is fully deployed by 2030 in line with the Clean 
Growth Strategy target and public sector measures are fully deployed by 2032 to 
contribute to the Government’s emission reduction target.  
 
 
 
 
 
Public willingness to adopt 
solid wall insulation is highly 
uncertain, as are the costs and 
benefits. Our Balanced 
Pathway insulates 3.5 million 
solid walls (out of a total of 8 
million). 
Public and commercial 
buildings benefit from around 
25% energy efficiency savings. 
115 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Low-carbon heating in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway implies that by 2030, low-carbon heat installations 
in homes could represent up to around 80% of sales.* Of these low-carbon heat 
installations, 75% are heat pumps (including hydrogen hybrids), 19% are low-
carbon heat networks, and 5% are other flexible electric heating with space heat 
storage or solar thermal. 
• 
By 2030, heat pump sales reach just over 1 million per year in new and 
existing homes of a total market of 1.8 million boiler installations currently. 
There are a total of 5.5 million heat pumps installed in homes by 2030, of 
which 2.2 million are in new homes (Figure 3.2.c).  
• 
Hydrogen trials are scaled up rapidly in the 2020s to enable rapid grid 
conversion from 2030 onwards (as detailed in the separate Policy report).  
• 
Low-carbon heat networks are built through 2020-2050, with scaling up 
through to 2028, from which point around 0.5% of total heating demand is 
converted per year. By 2050, around a fifth of heat is distributed through 
heat networks.  
 
Figure 3.2.c Uptake of heat pumps in  
residential buildings 
 
Source: Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to 
inform the sixth carbon budget. 
 
By 2030 37% of public and commercial heat demand is met by low-carbon 
sources. Of this low-carbon heat demand 65% is met by heat pumps, 32% district 
heating and 3% biomass. By 2050 all heat demand is met by low-carbon sources of 
which 52% is heat pumps, 42% is district heat, 5% is hydrogen boilers and around 1% 
 
 
*   Based on low-carbon heat installations in existing homes in 2030 of 1.2m, low-carbon heat installations in new homes 
of 0.3m, and current annual boiler sales of 1.8m per year. 
By 2030, most heating 
installations are low-carbon – 
predominantly heat pumps. 
Public buildings move at a 
faster pace, leading to higher 
levels of low-carbon heat in 
non-residential buildings by 
2030. A greater share of 
demand is met through heat 
networks than for homes. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
116 
is new direct electric heating. 
 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
 
All buildings scenarios achieve close to zero emissions by 2050. The Tailwinds and 
Widespread Engagement pathways are faster than the Balanced Pathway, 
reducing to close to zero by 2044 (Figure 3.2.d).* By 2035, the pathways achieve 
reductions of 45% - 65%, relative to current emissions. 
 
We explore different contexts by varying the key timings, costs and performance 
assumptions and by exploring the impact of innovation such as new business 
models (Table 3.2.b): 
• 
Widespread Engagement. Households and businesses are prepared to 
undertake renovations at scale through the 2020s, with high levels of pre-
heating and other behaviour change in homes.† They also support earlier 
regulatory approaches. 
• 
Innovation. Power sector innovation drives down electricity costs. 
Households adopt smart, flexible electric heating including hybrid heat 
pumps, as well as high-temperature heat pumps (which are able to 
operate at higher temperatures, reducing the need for radiator 
upgrades).4‡ New business models such heat-as-a-service and new 
financial models for deep retrofits become common, delivering high 
performance solutions. High levels of cost reduction through learning, and 
increases in performance over time. 
• 
Headwinds. People change behaviour and new technologies develop, but 
there are no widespread behavioural shifts or innovations that significantly 
reduce the cost of green technologies ahead of current projections. 
Alongside strong electrification, there is widespread use of hydrogen, led 
by the conversion of industrial clusters.  
• 
Tailwinds. Households and businesses support early regulatory approaches, 
and minimise their use of energy through behaviour change and the 
highest uptake of energy efficiency measures. At the same time, innovation 
drives down costs (with 40% reductions in heat pump costs to 2050) and 
drives up performance. 
 
Availability of hydrogen in Headwinds is increased at an ambitious rate in the 
2030s, implying that some possible hydrogen-dominated pathways could lead to 
lower emissions in the budget period. However, as a result this scenario has 
considerably higher overall hydrogen demand, creating a substantially bigger 
challenge to source sufficient volumes of low-carbon hydrogen. In turn, this is likely 
to lead to more use of fossil gas reforming with carbon capture and storage (CCS), 
increasing residual emissions from hydrogen production and increasing reliance on 
CCS and fossil gas imports (see section 5). While higher buildings demands could 
be conceived of, they are not included in our scenarios due to these supply 
challenges and residual emissions. 
 
 
*   Some additional rollout of low-carbon heat networks occurs to 2050. 
†   Where homes are sufficiently well insulated, it is possible to pre-heat ahead of peak times, enabling access to 
cheaper tariffs which reflect the reduced costs associated with running networks and producing power off-peak. 
Other behavioural measures are summarised in table 3.2.a. 
‡   While high temperature heat pumps are specifically designed for high temperature operation, the designs of 
‘conventional’ heat pumps are increasingly being improved to reach 60-65°C at reasonable efficiency. We assume 
that radiator upgrades could be avoided where flow temperatures of 65-70°C are reached. An efficiency penalty is 
associated with operation at these higher temperatures, although discussions with manufacturers suggest efficiency 
benefits relative to resistive heating are maintained even in very cold weather. 
We explore a range of 
scenarios which achieve 45-
65% reduction in emissions by 
2035, against current levels. 
117 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.2.d Emissions pathways for the  
buildings sector 
 
Source: Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to 
inform the sixth carbon budget; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
118 
Table 3.2.b 
Summary of key differences in the buildings sector scenarios 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Headwinds 
Tailwinds 
Behaviour 
change and 
demand 
reduction 
Moderate levels 
of behaviour 
change 
(homes). 
 
25% of eligible 
households pre-
heat, 3% 
reduction in 
space heat 
demand from 
smarter heating 
management 
and use, low-
flow shower 
heads. 
 
 
 
High levels of 
behaviour 
change 
(homes). 
 
50% of eligible 
households pre-
heat, 6% 
reduction in 
space heat 
demand, 50°C 
hot water 
temperature 
with daily 
legionella cycle,* 
low flow shower 
heads 
 
High levels of 
behaviour 
change 
(homes).  
 
50% of eligible 
households pre-
heat, 6% 
reduction in 
space heat 
demand, heat-
as-a-service 
delivering higher 
performance, 
low flow shower 
heads 
Moderate levels 
of behaviour 
change (homes) 
 
25% of eligible 
households pre-
heat, 3% 
reduction in 
space heat 
demand, low 
flow shower 
heads 
High levels of 
behaviour 
change (homes) 
 
50% of eligible 
households pre-
heat, 6% 
reduction in 
space heat 
demand, heat-
as-a-service 
delivering higher 
performance, 
low flow shower 
heads 
Efficiency 
Moderate 
energy 
efficiency 
uptake in 
homes. Loft and 
wall insulation for 
all fuel poor. 
 
Fast commercial 
uptake; 
Moderate-
paced public 
uptake. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moderate-high 
energy 
efficiency 
uptake in homes. 
Loft and wall 
insulation for all 
fuel poor. 
 
Fast uptake of 
energy 
efficiency in 
other buildings. 
 
Lower energy 
efficiency 
uptake in homes. 
Loft and wall 
insulation for all 
fuel poor. 
Innovation drives 
down energy 
efficiency costs 
and delivers high 
performing deep 
retrofits. 
 
Moderate-
paced uptake in 
other buildings. 
 
 
Lower energy 
efficiency 
uptake in 
homes. Loft and 
wall insulation for 
all fuel poor. 
 
Slow commercial 
uptake; 
moderate-
paced public 
uptake. 
High energy 
efficiency 
uptake in homes 
(full economic 
potential). Loft 
and wall 
insulation for all 
fuel poor. 
 
Fast uptake of 
energy 
efficiency in 
other buildings. 
Low-carbon 
fuels/ 
technology 
 
 
Hybrid hydrogen 
scenario in 
homes, with 11% 
of homes using 
hydrogen for 
heat. Limited use 
Fully electrified 
scenario 
(including heat 
networks). No 
biofuels in 
homes. 
Hybrid hydrogen 
scenario in 
homes, with 10% 
of homes using 
hydrogen for 
heat. 
Widespread 
Widespread 
network 
conversion to 
hydrogen, with 
71% of homes 
using hydrogen 
for heat. Smaller 
Buildings fully 
electrified, 
except for areas 
around industrial 
clusters which 
use H2 boilers. 
11% of homes 
 
 
*   Legionella bacteria are widespread in natural water systems and can cause Legionnaires’ disease where conditions 
are conducive e.g. where water is maintained at a temperature high enough to encourage growth. Legionella 
bacteria can multiply where temperatures are between 20-45°C, but do not survive above 60°C. HSE is currently 
undertaking work with CIBSE looking at guidance for low-temperature systems to manage legionella risk. 
119 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
of biofuels in 
homes.  
 
Heat networks 
fully electrified.* 
 
Non-residential 
buildings heat 
and catering 
demands mainly 
electrified with 
some hydrogen. 
 
uptake of high- 
temperature 
heat pumps and 
flexible 
technology. No 
biofuels in 
homes.  
 
Heat networks 
fully electrified. 
Lower levels of 
low-carbon heat 
networks in non-
residential 
buildings. 
 
Non-residential 
buildings heat 
and catering 
demands mainly 
electrified with 
some hydrogen. 
 
Higher efficiency 
of heat pumps 
and greater 
reduction in cost 
over time. 
 
role for heat 
pumps across all 
buildings; 13 
million in homes. 
 
In homes, 
hydrogen boilers 
in north and 
heat pump-
hydrogen 
hybrids in south. 
Limited use of 
biofuels. 
 
Heat networks 
supplied by 
hydrogen and 
large-scale heat 
pumps. 
 
Catering and 
cooking 
demands 
predominantly 
met with 
hydrogen. 
using hydrogen 
for heat. No 
biofuels in 
homes. 
 
Higher efficiency 
of heat pumps 
and greater 
reduction in cost 
over time. 
 
 
 
Table 3.2.c 
Critical dates and scenario metrics in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
date 
Range 
All new homes are zero-carbon 
2025 at the latest 
2024-2025 
Rented homes achieve EPC C 
2028 
2027-2030 
Standards for lenders targeting EPC C across 
the housing portfolio 
2025 - 2033 
From 2025 to 2030/2035 
All homes for sale EPC C 
2028 
2025-2030 
Commercial energy efficiency complete 
2030 
2030-2035 
Public sector energy efficiency complete 
2032 
2030-2032 
Oil and coal phase out  
(outside of any zones designated for low-
carbon district heat) 
Residential: 2028 
Commercial oil: 2026 
Public oil and all coal: 2025 
Residential: 2026-2028 
Commercial: N/A 
Public: N/A 
Natural gas phase out  
(outside of zones designated for low-carbon 
district heat or hydrogen-conversion) 
Residential: 2033 
Commercial: 2033 
Public: 2030 
Residential: 2030-2035 
Commercial: 2030-2033 
Public: 2030-2033 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Dominated by water- and sewage-source heat pumps and waste heat from industrial sources. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
120 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, benefits and co-impacts on 
society 
In our 2019 Net Zero report, we identified buildings as one of the most costly 
challenges across the economy, with in-year costs in 2050 of around £15 billion per 
year and uncertainty around the total costs throughout the period to 2050. Our 
updated Sixth Carbon Budget pathways estimate these full costs.  
The Balanced Pathway requires investment across all buildings (residential and 
non-residential) at an average rate of around ~£12 billion per year to 2050, offset 
by reductions in operating costs of ~£5 billion per year: 
• 
Total investment costs are £360 billion to 2050, of which around £250 billion is 
for the programme of upgrading homes (Figure 3.2.e) and £110 billion in 
public and commercial buildings. 
• 
Total investment in the programme of efficiency in existing homes in this 
scenario is around £45 billion to 2035 with a total spend of £55 billion by 
2050. This compares to BEIS’s published estimate of £35-65 billion to achieve 
the EPC C standard.5  
• 
Total investment costs are less than £10,000 per household on average in 
our Balanced Pathway. 63% of homes need spend no more than £1000 on 
retrofitting energy efficiency measures. 
• 
The deployment of all energy efficiency potential in public and 
commercial buildings entails £2 billion per year of commercial investment 
to 2030 and £0.5 billion per year of public sector investment to 2032. Annual 
operating cost savings of around £1.5 billion and £0.5 billion result for 
commercial and public buildings respectively. 
• 
Including low-carbon heat increases this to £2.8 billion per year investment 
in commercial buildings and £0.9 billion in public buildings through the 
2030s and 2040s. This is associated with total operating cost savings of £3 
billion per year across public and commercial buildings. 
 
Energy efficiency is projected to deliver ongoing operating cost savings (Figure 
3.2.e), resulting in lower overall bills for households in all scenarios apart from 
Headwinds (Chapter 6). Behaviour change in our Balanced Pathway is estimated 
to contribute around £0.4 billion of savings per year by 2050. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Balanced Pathway 
requires investment at an 
average rate of around ~£12 
billion per year to 2050, offset 
by reductions in fuel costs of 
~£5 billion per year. 
 
 
Total investment costs are less 
than £10,000 per household.  
121 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.2.e Household investment and operating  
costs for existing homes, Balanced Net Zero  
Pathway 
 
Source: Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to 
inform the sixth carbon budget; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
122 
 
Figure 3.2.f Operating costs in existing homes, 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to 
inform the sixth carbon budget; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Opex not calculated for transition to low-carbon cooking or for decarbonisation of household and garden 
machinery. 
 
 
Reduction of costs – through learning by doing and by incentivising flexibility – is 
essential (see accompanying Policy report). 
This is a major investment programme which, if managed well, can have strong 
economic benefits. In particular, the investment can act as a stimulus and create 
skilled employment throughout the UK, with the Construction Industry Training 
Board (CITB) estimating over 200,000 new jobs in this scenario (Figure 3.2.g). There is 
strong reason to believe these jobs would be additional to the current workforce. 
Energy efficiency retrofits are expected to provide new jobs and have already 
been recognised as an important part of the green recovery. Low-carbon heat 
installations, while replacing fossil fuel installations, are expected to drive additional 
jobs due to the additional labour required for more complex installations and 
household conversion.* 
 
 
 
 
*   Recently published evidence from BEIS suggests that the labour costs for installing an air source heat pump are 
roughly double those for a conventional gas boiler, with the costs being around three times higher for a ground 
source heat pump (Delta EE for BEIS (2020), Cost of installing heating measures in domestic properties). These 
increased costs are representative, in part, of the increase in effort required. While there is potential for labour 
differentials to be more limited for hydrogen boilers and heat network connections to homes, the need for regional 
conversions could drive additional jobs relative to the installations which might otherwise be associated with natural 
replacement cycles. 
This major investment 
programme can act as an 
economic stimulus and create 
over 200,000 new jobs.  
123 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Upgrading the building stock will deliver a significant set of wider benefits in terms 
of improved comfort and health, particularly for the fuel poor. The current 
estimated cost to the NHS from poor quality housing is £1.4-2 billion per year, in 
England alone.6 Energy efficiency – done alongside ventilation and shading 
upgrades – can improve comfort levels year-round and guard against damp (Box 
3.2.a). The retrofit of homes to both address and adapt to climate change has 
potential to deliver regeneration benefits. More widely, the shift to electrification 
and heat networks can also deliver improved energy security and improved air 
quality. There is some evidence to suggest that there could also be air quality 
benefits from switching to hydrogen heating in terms of reduced NOx emissions, 
although further research is needed.7  
 
Figure 3.2.g Additional FTE requirements for each 
qualification level and specialist skill 
 
Source: CITB (2020) Building Skills for Net Zero (draft report); CCC analysis. 
Notes: Figures adjusted to represent a 2-year rolling average. ‘TrustMark retrofit other specialisms’ includes retrofit 
designers, installers, advisers and assessors. FTE equivalent by skills do not sum exactly to equivalent numbers by 
trade due to mapping. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wider benefits include 
improved health outcomes, 
levels of comfort and 
adapting to a changing 
climate.  
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
124 
Box 3.2.a 
A holistic approach to retrofit 
Measures to address thermal efficiency, overheating, indoor air quality and moisture 
must be considered together when retrofitting or building new homes.  
 
There are zero cost actions householders can take now to better ventilate and shade 
their homes, including shutting curtains during the day to limit solar gains, and opening 
windows to improve ventilation.* There are also home upgrade measures which can 
improve overheating and ventilation further.  
 
• Shading measures can include high specification blinds (e.g. with reflective backing) 
and/or external shading or awnings. We estimate that installing moderate cost 
measures to the most at-risk property types would add £4-£5 billion of total investment 
costs to 2050.†8 
• Ventilation measures (which can also help mitigate overheating risk) include extract 
fans, mechanical extract ventilation (MEV) and mechanical extract ventilation and 
heat recovery (MVHR). Installing extract fans is estimated to cost around £550 per 
home, while MEV or MVHR could add between £1,700-£4,100 per home.9 
Wider adaptation needs, such as water efficiency and flood resilience, should be 
considered as part of retrofit needs but have not been costed as part of this work. 
Sources: CCC and Element Energy analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Windows should be opened when room temperatures reach 22 degrees, but should remain closed if outdoor 
temperatures rise above indoor temperatures. Overheating and ventilation can both be improved by opening 
windows during the night to purge heat. 
†   This assumes all flats within the housing stock install high specification blinds designed to reflect solar gain and/or 
allow for windows to be open during use. These costs would be additional to those presented in Figure 3.2.e.  
125 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
3. Manufacturing and construction 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway sees manufacturing and construction emissions 
reduced by 70% by 2035 and 90% by 2040 from 2018 levels, based on fuel-
switching, CCS and improvements to resource and energy efficiency (Figure 3.3.a).  
 
This pathway has faster reductions than the pathway underpinning our 2015 Fifth 
Carbon Budget advice. This reflects substantially improved knowledge of deep 
decarbonisation and resource efficiency options (see Methodology Report) and 
the shift to an economy-wide Net Zero target. 
 
The pathway assumes that the Government establishes a policy framework to 
support UK manufacturing to reduce emissions in a way that does not drive 
manufacturers overseas and that benefits jobs and investment in UK 
manufacturing (see Chapter 4 in the accompanying Policy Report and Chapter 6 
in this report for more on competitiveness and jobs).  
 
Figure 3.3.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the  
manufacturing and construction sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: The abatement from BECCS in the graph does not include the carbon captured, which is accounted for the 
in the removals subsection of Chapter 3. 
 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway involves 
manufacturing and 
construction (M&C) emissions 
cuts of 90% by 2040. 
 
The pathway requires policy to 
drive emissions reductions in a 
way that does not drive 
manufacturers overseas. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
126 
This section is split into three sub-sections: 
a) The Balanced Pathway for manufacturing and construction 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, benefits and co-impacts on society 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for manufacturing and 
construction 
 
The pace of decarbonisation in the Balanced Pathway for manufacturing and 
construction gradually accelerates through the 2020s to mid-2030s with the 
increasing implementation of new technologies, policy, resource efficient 
approaches, and development of infrastructure and supply chains. Most 
decarbonisation of the sector is complete by 2040. Figure 3.3.a presents an 
overview of the emissions reduction actions and timing of the Balanced Pathway 
actions. 
• 
Improvements in resource and energy efficiency lead to the largest 
emissions reductions in the early 2020s, with smaller contributions from 
electrification, biofuel use and material substitution. Fuel-switching and CCS 
deployment scale up from 2025.  
• 
Infrastructures for CCS and hydrogen are deployed from 2025 in the 
pathway, starting near industrial clusters. Electricity network connection 
capacity is also increased around newly electrifying sites. The 2030s sees 
substantial scale-up across these three major networks. 
• 
Policy develops rapidly to ensure that it pays for companies to implement 
societally cost-effective measures and that non-financial barriers are 
addressed. See the accompanying Policy Report for policy 
recommendations. 
• 
Supply chains scale up at pace in the pathway. More workers acquire skills 
to implement low-carbon measures, the supply of necessary technologies 
and equipment grows, and the availability of finance increases. 
 
Improvements in resource and energy efficiency and material substitution in the 
Balanced Pathway reduce emissions by 12 MtCO2e per year by 2035, contributing 
8 MtCO2e, 3 MtCO2e and 1 MtCO2e respectively: 
• 
Resource efficiency abatement gradually increases from 2020 to 2035. 
• Improvements that reduce end-user consumption of new resources 
cut emissions by 3 MtCO2e per year in 2035 (Figure 3.3.a). This includes 
measures such as consumers using clothes and electronics products 
for longer, which may require improved durability. 
• Measures that improve resource efficiency in production reduce 
emissions by 5 MtCO2e per year in 2035. This includes measures such as 
optimising building design to reduce material use. 
• The resource efficiency measures can alternatively be split into the 
following groups: design optimisation to reduce material inputs (3 
MtCO2e per year in 2035), increased recycling and reuse (3 MtCO2e, 
of which half is through reuse of construction materials), increasing 
product longevity (2 MtCO2e, largely from electronics), and increased 
product utilisation and sharing (1 MtCO2e, including sharing leisure 
equipment and car clubs). 
During the 2020s the Balanced 
Pathway has increasing 
implementation of new 
technologies, policy, resource 
efficient approaches, and 
development of infrastructure 
and supply chains.  
Recycling, reusing and sharing 
products, increasing product 
longevity and reducing 
material use through better 
design, all play a role in 
reducing M&C emissions in the 
Balanced Pathway. 
 
 
127 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Energy efficiency improvements achieve emissions reductions of 4 MtCO2e 
per year by 2050. Measures in the most energy-intensive sectors are divided 
between heat recovery (0.5 MtCO2e), process upgrade (1 MtCO2e), 
equipment upgrade (1 MtCO2e) and integration/clustering (0.5 MtCO2e), 
with a further 1 MtCO2e in less energy intense sectors. 
• 
Material substitution measures in the pathway include partial substitution of 
clinker in cement and the use of wood in construction, and increase 
steadily over the period to 2050. 
 
Figure 3.3.b Manufacturing and construction  
abatement and residual emissions in 2050 in 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway against  
counterfactual processes 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
Fuel-switching reduces sector emissions in the Balanced Pathway in 2035 by 18 
MtCO2e per year, increasing to 30 MtCO2e in 2045 (Figure 3.3.a). In the 2020s, a mix 
of fuel-switching technologies are deployed to keep options open for subsequent 
deployment, given uncertainty about which fuel-switching options will prevail in 
the 2030s. In the 2030s options are deployed where they are cost-effective under 
our cost assumptions - this results in a mix of electrification, hydrogen and 
bioenergy deployment, reflecting variation in cost-effectiveness between different 
applications and locations. 
• 
Electrification reduces emissions by 9 MtCO2e per year by 2035, increasing 
to 14 MtCO2e by 2045. Electrification measures include electric boilers, 
switching from on-site generation to a grid connection, electric arc 
furnaces, electric mobile machinery, electric dryers and electric infra-red 
heaters (Figure 3.3.b).  
Improvements in resource and 
energy efficiency lead to the 
largest emissions reductions in 
the early 2020s. 
 
With falling electricity costs, 
the Balanced Pathway has an 
important role for 
electrification.  
 
 
Switching from fossil fuels to 
low-carbon fuels contributes 
the largest emissions 
reductions in the Balanced 
Pathway from the early 2030s. 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
128 
Some electrification options are introduced in the early 2020s due to high 
levels of technology and commercial readiness. Some electrification 
measures involve scrapping existing assets before the end of their 
expected lifespan. This reflects preferable economics over the alternatives 
and the inability to retrofit some electrification options. 
• 
Hydrogen use reduces emissions by 7 MtCO2e per year by 2035, increasing 
to 14 MtCO2e by 2045. Hydrogen measures include hydrogen boilers, CHP, 
generators, mobile machinery and kilns. Our latest evidence suggests that 
these measures can typically be retrofitted, limiting the need to wait for a 
replacement cycle or to scrap assets before fitting. 
• 
Bioenergy use reduces fossil emissions by 2 MtCO2e per year by 2035 
increasing to 2.5 MtCO2e in 2045. Its use is prioritised for sectors already 
using bioenergy, such as cement and pulp, or with the potential to fit CCS. 
CCS is applied to all new bioenergy use in manufacturing and 
construction*, apart from biofuel use in mobile machinery. In 2035, biofuels 
contribute 0.5 MtCO2e per year of abatement, falling to zero by 2040. The 
application of CCS to bioenergy results in further abatement of 3 MtCO2e in 
2045 – this fraction of the BECCS is not accounted for in our manufacturing 
results, but rather in greenhouse gas removals (see section 11). 
 
CCS reduces manufacturing emissions in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway by 6 
MtCO2e per year in 2035, increasing to 9 MtCO2e by 2045 (Figure 3.3.a). In the 
pathway, CCS is applied to fertiliser plants, half of the UK’s integrated steelwork 
capacity, and processes where it is the only deep decarbonisation option 
available. 
• 
There is 5 MtCO2e per year of abatement in 2045 from processes where we 
have not identified alternative options to reduce emissions to near-zero. This 
includes processes that a) produce CO2 from non-combustion processes, 
such as cement production and b) combust fuels (sometimes called 
internal fuels or off-gases) that are produced as part of the industrial 
process.  
• 
CCS is also applied as a lower-cost measure to existing ammonia/fertiliser 
plants in the mid-2020s and half of the UK’s integrated steelwork capacity in 
the early 2030s. This contributes 4 MtCO2e per year of abatement in 2045. 
• 
Smaller scale, more expensive CCS is deployed in the late 2030s and 2040s.  
 
The geographical distribution of fuel-switching and CCS measures is focussed 
around industrial clusters. However, there is still substantial abatement outside of 
the clusters (Figure 3.3.c).  
• 
The location of sites may affect the choice of deep decarbonisation option 
when multiple options are possible – our evidence suggests that 
electrification has an advantage over hydrogen at dispersed sites, due to 
differences in electricity and hydrogen distribution options and availability.  
• 
Pipeline, train, truck or shipping are considered as options to transport CO2 
from dispersed sites where CCS is their only deep decarbonisation option, 
such as cement, lime and other mineral sites. 
 
 
 
*   We have not accounted for the small amount of bioenergy that we expect may be introduced prior to the fitting of 
CCS. 
Hydrogen used in boilers, CHP, 
generators, mobile machinery, 
furnaces and kilns reduces 
M&C emissions by 7 MtCO2e 
per year by 2035.  
 
 
CCS reduces emissions where 
it is the only deep 
decarbonisation option 
available. It is also applied to 
fertiliser plants in the mid-2020s. 
 
 
The Balanced Pathway has 
substantial action focussed in 
industrial clusters. However, 
decarbonisation of dispersed 
sites is still considerable. 
 
 
129 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.3.c Map of deep decarbonisation  
measures in the manufacturing and construction 
sectors in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway in 2050 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: The individual pies represent emissions within a certain geographical radius and may include more than one 
site. Map excludes small sites where geographical data was not available, which includes all industrial off-road 
mobile machinery, together these constitute 42% of manufacturing and construction deep decarbonisation 
abatement. Map does not include abatement of emissions from electricity generation, fuel su pply or waste. It does 
not include abatement from resource efficiency or energy efficiency measures. 
 
The different subsectors of industry have different mixes of abatement measures 
and slightly different paces of decarbonisation (Figure 3.3.d), reflecting their 
different technology options, geographical distribution, underpinning infrastructure 
requirements and opportunities for energy and resource efficiency. 
• 
Resource efficiency measures have the most substantial impact on the 
cement & lime and iron & steel sectors, particularly as a result of measures 
in the construction, vehicles and fabricated metal sectors. The paper sector 
has the highest fraction* of abatement from energy efficiency (38% in 
2050), with a substantial saving from clustering and using waste heat from 
other sites. The largest absolute abatement from energy efficiency is in the 
chemicals sector (1 MtCO2e in 2050), driven largely by equipment 
upgrades. 
 
 
 
 
*   Compared to other sectors. 
Sectors with fewer sites, such 
as iron and steel, can see fast 
decarbonisation once started. 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
130 
• 
Sectors with larger numbers of sites, smaller sites and more dispersed sites 
decarbonise slower, such as food and drink, other manufacturing and 
construction and off-road mobile machinery (which doesn’t have fixed 
sites). Sectors with fewer sites, such as iron and steel, can see faster 
decarbonisation once started. 
 
Figure 3.3.d Abatement and remaining emissions 
for manufacturing and construction subsectors in 
2050 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
131 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Consumption emissions also decline on our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, reflecting 
domestic decarbonisation actions, reductions in consumption that reduce imports, 
and policy on the carbon intensity of imports (see accompanying Policy Report) 
and international decarbonisation action. Exploratory analysis of the effect of 
these actions on consumption emissions is set out Figure 3.3.e. 
 
Figure 3.3.e Indicative consumption emissions for 
the combined manufacturing and construction  
and fuel supply sectors and effect of import 
policy under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway for 
two scenarios of international action 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Calculations are indicative. The consumption emissions baseline assumes simple % growth in consumption of 
different sectors combined with NDC level action internationally. The territorial emissions baseline uses a different 
methodology based on Government emissions projections (see Methodology Report). Import policy is assumed to 
gradually improve the carbon intensity of imports to manufacturing, construction and fuel supply is a production 
basis.  
 
 
Consumption emissions also 
decline in our Balanced 
Pathway, with a role for policy 
on the carbon intensity of 
imports. 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
132 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
 
Our four exploratory scenarios vary by pace (Figure 3.3.f), the measures they 
contain, such as resource efficiency, fuel-switching, and CCS (Table 3.3.a) and 
assumptions (see Methodology Report). 
 
The main divergences in pace are in the Headwinds and Tailwinds scenarios 
(Figure 3.3.f). In Headwinds, pace is slower because technology and fuel costs are 
higher, there is less resource efficiency and companies are less willing to electrify 
because it involves a full equipment refit and possibly scrapping assets. In Tailwinds 
the combination of lower technology costs, more Government support, businesses 
acting beyond incentives and faster development of supply chains increase pace. 
 
The most substantial variation in outcome between the scenarios is in the fuel-
switching options. This reflects the uncertainty around whether, where and when 
electrification, blue hydrogen or green hydrogen will be most competitive, 
although all scenarios have a mix of electrification and hydrogen. 
 
Outcomes that vary less include energy efficiency and CCUS on process emissions. 
Both are low-regret actions. The former is low-cost and for the latter there is no 
alternative option.  
 
Figure 3.3.f Emissions pathways for the 
manufacturing and construction sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
Our four exploratory pathways 
see different levels of 
electrification and hydrogen 
use. This reflects uncertainty 
about the relative 
competitiveness of the options 
in the future. 
 
 
Low-regret options include 
CCUS on process emissions 
and energy efficiency. 
 
 
133 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 3.3.a 
Summary of key differences in the manufacturing and construction sector scenarios 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Resource 
efficiency 
High level 
driven by mix of 
behaviour and 
innovation 
Moderate levels 
High level driven 
by consumer 
and business 
engagement 
Moderate-high 
level driven by 
innovative 
techniques and 
business models 
High level driven 
by behaviour 
and innovation 
Fuel-switching 
and CCS 
Balance of 
electrification 
and (mostly) 
blue hydrogen 
More blue 
hydrogen than 
electrification. 
Wider use of 
CCS on 
combustion 
emissions 
Mostly 
electrification, 
some green 
and blue 
hydrogen. 
Electrification 
and green 
hydrogen. 
Higher CCS 
capture rates. 
Electrification 
and green 
hydrogen. 
Higher CCS 
capture rates. 
Business attitude 
Most businesses 
follow 
incentives. 
Business resistant 
to change, 
prefer to retrofit 
despite of 
incentives. 
Most businesses 
follow 
incentives. 
Faster supply 
chain 
development. 
Most businesses 
follow 
incentives. 
Businesses follow 
incentives and 
go beyond. 
Faster supply 
chain 
development. 
 
c) Costs and benefits of the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway will incur additional financial costs in the 
manufacturing and construction sector, as well as some savings from resource and 
energy efficiency improvements. With well-designed policy, it can drive investment 
and support jobs in the manufacturing and construction sectors (see chapter 5).  
 
We estimate the annualised cost* of the Balanced Net Zero Pathway for 
manufacturing and construction to be around £1 billion/year in 2030, £2 
billion/year in 2035 and reaching £4 billion/year through the 2040s. In 2040 this 
represents an average cost of abatement across all measures of around 
£75/tCO2e. 
• 
Additional capital costs are around £1 billion/year in the late 2020s 
increasing to £2 billion/year in the early 2030s and peak at around £3 
billion/year in the late 2030s, before falling to around £2 billion/year in the 
2040s. 
• 
Additional operational costs from fuel-switching and CCS are around £0.5 
billion/year in late 2020s, increasing to £1 billion/ year in the early 2030s, £2.5 
billion in the late 2030s and reaching £3 billion/year in the 2040s. These may 
be partially offset by savings of up to £1billion/ year from the late 2020s from 
energy efficiency. 
 
We estimate that the cost to the exchequer of enabling the deep decarbonisation 
measures - fuel switching and CCS - in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, in a way 
that protects trade-exposed subsectors, would be around £2 billion/year in 2030. 
This cost could reduce over time as policy is applied to imports and industry are 
subsequently able to pass through costs to consumers. There may also be a further 
cost to remove legacy levy control framework costs from industry power bills, 
which is not accounted for in these estimates. 
 
 
*   Where capital costs are spread over the lifetime of the investment. 
Fuel switching and CCS in 
the Balanced Pathway 
increase M&C capital and 
operating costs by £3 
billion/year in the early 
2030s. 
 
The average cost of 
abatement in the M&C 
Balanced Pathway is 
£75/tCO2e. 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
134 
4. Electricity generation 
Introduction and key messages 
 
In this section we set out how to reduce emissions from electricity generation to 
near-zero. This will require a significant expansion of low-carbon generation, in 
particular low-cost renewables and decarbonised back-up generation, in 
conjunction with more flexible demand and use of storage. 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway decarbonises electricity generation by 2035, with 
action thereafter focused on meeting new demands in a low-carbon way. We set 
out the analysis underpinning these conclusions in the following three sub-sections: 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for electricity generation 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, investment, and co-impacts 
  
Further detail on the approach to developing the scenarios is set out in Chapter 5 
of the accompanying Methodology Report. 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for electricity generation 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway very largely decarbonises electricity generation 
by 2030, and decarbonises it completely by 2035, with action thereafter focused 
on meeting rising demand with low-carbon generation. 
 
The key features of the scenario are an increasing demand for electricity, 
decreasing carbon intensity of generation, and a more flexible system: 
• 
Increasing demand for electricity. This reflects increasing electrification of 
the economy (e.g. use of electric vehicles in transport). There is a doubling 
of demand, from around 300 TWh today to 360 TWh in 2030, 460 TWh in 
2035, and 610 TWh in 2050 (Figure 3.4.a). That excludes the production of 
hydrogen using surplus generation, which accounts for an additional 30 
TWh of electricity generation in 2035 and 120 TWh in 2050. 
• 
Decreasing carbon intensity of electricity generation. Carbon intensity of 
generation falls from 220 gCO2/kWh in 2019 to around 50 gCO2/kWh in 
2030, 10 gCO2/kWh in 2035, and 2 gCO2/kWh in 2050 (Figure 3.4.b).  
– Phasing out unabated fossil fuel generation by 2035. Electricity 
generation will be completely low-carbon once unabated coal and 
gas plants are no longer generating. Following the coal phase-out by 
2024, almost all remaining emissions will come from unabated gas. The 
Balanced Pathway phases out use of unabated gas by 2035, meaning 
electricity generation is completely low-carbon from that date. That is 
achievable with the cost-effective deployment of renewables, gas 
CCS, and hydrogen at scale. Chapter 5 in the Methodology Report 
sets out further detail on why this is an achievable date, and Chapter 
5 in the Policy Report sets out the policy implications. 
– Increasing variable renewables to 80% of generation by 2050. Under 
the Balanced Pathway variable renewables reach 60% of generation 
by 2030, 70% by 2035, and 80% by 2050. This generation allows new 
electricity demands to be met with minimal emissions and at low cost.  
The Balanced Pathway has a 
doubling in demand by 2050 
compared to 2019 levels. 
Electricity generation is entirely 
low-carbon by 2035. 
Renewables form the 
backbone of the electricity 
system, representing 80% of 
generation in 2050. 
135 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• Wind, particularly offshore, is the backbone of the system, 
providing 265 TWh of generation in 2035 and 430 TWh in 2050. That 
requires deploying 3 GW per year of new wind capacity, plus 
repowering of older sites as they reach the end of their (25-30 year) 
operating lives. 
• Solar generation increases from 10 TWh in 2019 to 60 TWh in 2035 
and 85 TWh in 2050. On average, 3 GW per year will need to be 
installed to reach this level of solar generation. 
– Dispatchable low-carbon generation. Some flexible low-carbon 
generation (e.g. gas or bioenergy with carbon capture and storage 
(CCS), or hydrogen) will be required, in particular during periods of low 
production from variable weather-dependent renewables. 
• Gas with CCS. From the second half of the 2020s, the Balanced 
Pathway sees the development of CCS infrastructure, which 
enables the deployment of gas CCS. By 2035, 30 TWh of 
generation comes from gas CCS, meeting 6% of demand. 
• Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS). 
Development of CCS infrastructure also enables deployment of 
BECCS plants. These could provide 3% of generation by 2035. 
Although they have higher costs than other ways of generating 
electricity, these plants provide an additional benefit of removing 
carbon from the atmosphere (see Section 3.11). 
• Hydrogen can provide a flexible form of dispatchable generation 
similar to unabated gas. In the Balanced Pathway, some gas 
plants start to switch to hydrogen in the 2020s. By 2035, hydrogen 
gas plants provide 20 TWh of generation, meeting 5% of demand. 
– Nuclear. Despite retirements of existing nuclear plants in the 2020s, this 
scenario sees new nuclear projects restore generation to current levels 
by 2035. The Balanced Pathway reaches 10 GW of total nuclear 
capacity by 2035, with 8 GW of new-build capacity. 
• 
A more flexible electricity system will help balance out the variability in 
renewable generation. Increasing flexibility comes from both demand (e.g. 
demand-side response, and use of surplus renewable generation to 
produce hydrogen) and supply (e.g. use of electricity storage). 
– Storage. With an increasing share of variable renewables, storage can 
capture surplus energy when demand is low and provide backup 
generation when demand is particularly high.  
• The Balanced Pathway uses hydrogen as the primary source of 
storage. However, a similar role could also be performed by other 
medium-term storage technologies.  
• Pumped hydro storage offers dispatchable flexibility. Our analysis 
assumes capacity at similar levels to the currently installed 3 GW. 
However, there are already plans to develop new schemes and 
new sites have been identified which could provide an additional 
7 GW.10 
• Batteries can provide within-day flexibility. The Balanced Pathway 
assumes 18 GW of battery storage capacity by 2035. 
Dispatchable low-carbon 
generation is needed to 
balance variable renewables. 
Flexible demand is also 
important for managing the 
system. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
136 
– Flexible demand. Our analysis assumes that pre-heating and storage 
in buildings, and smart charging in transport can provide flexibility to 
the power system, by shifting electricity demand away from peak 
hours. The Methodology Report chapters on surface transport and 
buildings set out further detail on this. 
– Use of surplus electricity. The Balanced Pathway has an important role 
for electrolysers to produce hydrogen at low cost from surplus 
generation. In the Balanced Pathway 25% of hydrogen supply comes 
from electrolysis in 2035, increasing to 45% by 2050 (see Section 3.5 on 
Fuel Supply). 
– Interconnectors. Interconnections between the UK and neighbouring 
countries have a total current capacity of 6 GW.11 These allow the sale 
of surplus energy to neighbouring markets and provide access to 
resources in other countries. Under the Balanced Pathway 
interconnector capacity increases to 18 GW by 2050. However, until 
the power systems in the rest of Europe become fully decarbonised, 
there is uncertainty around the carbon intensity of imported electricity. 
 
Figure 3.4.a Electricity demand by sector in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway (2020-50) 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Other category includes agriculture, aviation, direct air capture, shipping and F-gases. 
 
 
 
Electricity demand doubles to 
2050, reflecting electrification 
of sectors across the 
economy. 
137 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The transition to a near-zero emission electricity system will have several phases: 
• 
2020s – Deploying low-cost renewables at scale and developing the 
markets for gas CCS and hydrogen, with some new build nuclear. 
• 
2030s – Transitioning to a completely low-carbon system by displacing 
unabated gas with low-carbon alternatives by 2035, alongside ramping up 
deployment of zero-carbon generation to keep pace with electrification of 
end-use sectors and increasing potential for demand-side flexibility via 
electric vehicles, heat pumps, and hydrogen production. 
• 
2040s – Running a near-zero emission electricity system, with variability in 
renewable generation managed through flexible demand, medium- and 
long-term storage, and use of dispatchable low-carbon generation. 
 
The result is that generation under the Balanced Pathway is completely low-
carbon by 2035 (Figure 3.4.c) and close to zero emission before 2050. 
 
Figure 3.4.b Carbon intensity in the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway (2010-50) 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) 2018 UK greenhouse gas emissions: final figures. BEIS (2020) 2019 UK greenhouse gas emissions: 
provisional figures; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Rate of reduction in carbon intensity accelerates from 2025, reflecting a rapid expansion of low-carbon 
generating capacity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are clearly defined 
phases to the Net Zero 
transition. 
Carbon intensity in the 
Balanced Pathway falls rapidly 
in the 2020s, reflecting the 
transition to a full low-carbon 
system by 2035. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
138 
Figure 3.4.c Illustrative generation mix for the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway (2020-50) 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Chart reflects UK electricity generation. Additional capacity is available through interconnection. Unabated 
fossil fuel generation includes coal and gas. Variable renewables include wind and solar. Firm power includes 
nuclear. Dispatchable low-carbon generation includes gas CCS, BECCS and hydrogen. 
 
 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
 
In addition to the Balanced Pathway, we have developed four exploratory 
scenarios. The overall approach to these is set out in Chapter 1. 
 
These scenarios explore alternative ways of reaching near-zero emissions from 
electricity generation over the period to 2050. They have a similar pathway for 
emissions but reflect different levels of electrification across the economy, as well 
as different technology mixes to generate that electricity. 
 
Across the exploratory scenarios, electricity demand ranges from 350 to 370 TWh in 
2030, 420 to 490 TWh in 2035, and 550 to 680 TWh in 2050 (Figure 3.4.d), compared 
to around 300 TWh today. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demand increases across all 
scenarios to 2050. 
Variable renewables form the 
backbone of the future 
electricity system, with no 
unabated fossil fuel use after 
2035. 
139 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.4.d Electricity demand across the  
exploratory scenarios (2010-50) 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Digest of UK Energy Statistics; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Excludes demand from electrolysis using surplus electricity generation. That accounts for an additional 65-
290 TWh in 2050, depending on the scenario. 
 
 
These ranges for electricity demand reflect different patterns and levels of 
electrification in other sectors: 
• 
Headwinds. This scenario has the least amount of electrification across the 
economy, and therefore the lowest demand level. Cars and vans are 
electrified, as in all the scenarios, and in this scenario heat and industrial 
processes in manufacturing are partially electrified, in total adding 245 TWh 
of electricity demand by 2050. 
• 
Widespread Engagement. In this scenario Heavy Goods Vehicles (HGVs) 
are also electrified, but a switch towards active travel and public transport 
moderates transport demand. A greater proportion of manufacturing and 
most heat energy demand is electrified. Together this leads to 310 TWh of 
new electricity demands by 2050. 
• 
Widespread Innovation. This is a scenario with widespread electrification, as 
a result of low electricity costs. Heating, surface transport (including HGVs), 
and manufacturing and construction electrify extensively. In addition, there 
are new demands from Direct Air Capture and to a lesser extent from 
agriculture and aviation. Overall, these sectors add 375 TWh of electricity 
demand by 2050. 
 
 
The Widespread Innovation 
scenario has the most 
extensive electrification, 
reflecting the low-cost of 
renewables in this scenario. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
140 
• 
Tailwinds. This scenario is similar to Widespread Innovation, but with a lower 
degree of electrification of heating and surface transport. There is an 
additional 315 TWh of new demand by 2050. 
 
Onto these different demand levels, we overlay scenarios for future low-carbon 
technologies. The range for carbon intensity under these scenarios is less than 50 
gCO2/kWh in 2030, 10-15 gCO2/kWh in 2035, and 1-2 gCO2/kWh in 2050. These 
compare to a carbon intensity of 220 gCO2/kWh in 2019. 
 
Decarbonisation is similar across our scenarios over the 2020s, with variable 
renewables reaching 65-70% of electricity generation in 2030. However, the pace 
of low-carbon deployment and the mix of generation technologies in the 
scenarios start to diverge after 2030 (Figure 3.4.e). Table 3.4.a sets out the key 
differences across scenarios. 
• 
Headwinds. This scenario has the lowest share of variable renewables in 
2050, with a greater role for dispatchable low-carbon generation and 
nuclear. 
– Past 2030, the share of renewable generation increases to around 
75%. Nuclear also meets some of the growth in the 2030s, while 
dispatchable low-carbon generation plays an increasingly important 
role, meeting 20% of demand by 2050. Unabated gas generation is 
phased out by 2040, later than in the Balanced Pathway. 
– At this level of variable renewable generation, there could be 70 TWh 
of surplus electricity production. Most of that could be used to 
produce green hydrogen, with installed electrolyser capacity of 10 
GW in 2030 and 50 GW in 2050. 
• 
Widespread Engagement. In this scenario there is a greater emphasis on 
variable renewables and dispatchable low-carbon generation. 
– Despite higher levels of demand, this scenario sees the renewable 
share of generation grow to 85% by 2050. Dispatchable low-carbon 
generation and nuclear play a consistent role in providing about 15% 
of generation in total. In this scenario, hydrogen plants or storage 
solutions are particularly important to ensure security of supply. 
– The surplus electricity that stems from variable generation can help 
produce 95 TWh of green hydrogen in 2050. In order to capture that 
there is 10 GW of installed electroyser capacity in 2030 and 100 GW in 
2050. 
• 
Widespread Innovation. This scenario has the highest share of variable 
renewable generation, reaching 90% in 2050. 
– With 90% of generation being met by variable renewables in 2050, the 
remaining 10% of generation is delivered by a mix of nuclear, gas CCS, 
BECCS, and hydrogen.  
– The high level of demand in this scenario requires high and rapid 
deployment rates for low-carbon capacity, including an average of 6 
GW per year of wind and 2 GW per year of hydrogen plant between 
2030 and 2050. 
– The high level of renewables also provides more opportunity for use of 
energy that could produce up to 180 TWh of green hydrogen in 2050. 
This would require 10 GW of electrolysers by 2030 and 95 GW by 2050. 
The Headwinds scenario has 
the lowest demand and the 
lowest share of renewables in 
2050. 
The Widespread Innovation 
scenario has the highest 
demand and the highest share 
of renewables in 2050. 
141 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Tailwinds. This scenario is very similar to Widespread Innovation, with 
variable renewables making up 90% of generation in 2050, with a mix of 
low-carbon generation to balance the system. 
 
For the Sixth Carbon Budget period (2033-37), emissions from electricity generation 
across the exploratory scenarios are very low (Figure 3.4.f) and range from 23 to 35 
MtCO2e over the five years. The range largely reflects the differing dates for 
phasing out unabated gas generation. Once this happens, all electricity is from 
decarbonised sources, with any residual emissions only coming from the small 
proportion of CO2 emissions not captured at fossil CCS plants. This occurs by 2035 
across all scenarios except for Headwinds, in which it happens by 2040. 
 
Figure 3.4.e Illustrative generation mix for the  
exploratory scenarios (2035 and 2050) 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Chart reflects UK electricity generation. Additional capacity is available through interconnection. Unabated 
fossil fuel generation includes coal and gas. Variable renewables includes wind and solar. Firm power includes 
nuclear. Dispatchable low-carbon generation includes gas CCS, BECCS and hydrogen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scenarios with higher 
deployment of renewables 
have greater potential for use 
of surplus generation. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
142 
Figure 3.4.f Emissions pathways for electricity 
generation (2010-50) 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) 2018 UK greenhouse gas emissions: final figures, BEIS (2020) 2019 UK greenhouse gas emissions: 
provisional figures; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Emissions over the Sixth Carbon 
Budget Period (2033-37) from 
electricity generation are very 
low, because the system is 
entirely low-carbon by 2035. 
143 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 3.4.a 
Summary of key differences in the electricity generation scenarios (2050) 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Demand (TWh) 
610 
550 
610 
680 
620 
Extent of 
electrification 
Cars & vans 
Partial heating 
Partial 
manufacturing 
Cars & vans 
Partial heating 
Partial 
manufacturing 
Cars & vans* 
HGVs 
Heating 
Partial 
manufacturing 
Cars & vans 
HGVs 
Partial heating 
Partial 
manufacturing 
DACCS 
Cars & vans* 
Partial heating 
Partial 
manufacturing 
DACCS 
Renewable 
generation & 
capacity** 
80% of total 
Wind: 125 GW 
Solar: 85 GW 
75% of total 
Wind: 90 GW 
Solar: 85 GW 
85% of total 
Wind: 130 GW 
Solar: 80 GW 
90% of total 
Wind: 175 GW 
Solar: 90 GW  
90% of total 
Wind: 160 GW 
Solar: 75 GW 
Dispatchable 
generation & 
capacity*** 
10% of total 
65 GW 
15% of total 
50 GW 
10% of total 
55 GW 
8% of total 
65 GW 
7% of total 
65 GW 
Nuclear 
capacity 
Multiple 
projects 
10 GW 
Multiple 
projects 
10 GW 
Contracted 
capacity 
5 GW 
Contracted 
capacity 
5 GW 
Contracted 
capacity 
5 GW 
Phase out of 
unabated gas 
2035 
2040 
2035 
2035 
2035 
 
Source: CCC analysis 
Notes:  *Although cars and vans electrify, these scenarios see a wider use of public transportation and active travel, thus reducing overall demand. 
**Variable renewables include wind and solar, including generation for electrolysis.  ***Dispatchable low-carbon generation includes gas CCS, BECCS 
and hydrogen. These numbers do not include demand for producing hydrogen with electricity. Our scenarios produce electrolytic hydrogen using 
surplus electricity only, and with methane reformation if surplus electricity is not available. It does not therefore necessarily reflect an additional 
demand for electricity. 
 
 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, investment, and co-impacts 
 
Our overall approach to assessing costs and benefits is set out in Chapter 5 of this 
report. This section sets out the implications for electricity generation, covering 
costs, investment requirements, and co-benefits. 
 
i) Costs 
 
We compare the costs of running the low-carbon electricity systems in our 
scenarios to the cost of running a high-carbon system (i.e. one based on unabated 
gas in the long-run). Although each scenario follows a broadly similar pathway for 
emissions, they do so with different levels of demand and different mixes of 
technologies. Both of these influence total costs: 
• 
Scenarios with higher levels of demand tend to have higher total costs, 
because more generating capacity and network investment is required. 
• 
Scenarios with more deployment of relatively expensive technologies have 
higher total costs. Table 3.4.b sets out the cost of different technologies. 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
144 
Table 3.4.b 
Costs of generation technologies  
 
2020 
£/MWh 
2035 
£/MWh 
2050 
£/MWh 
Unabated gas plant (excluding carbon price) 
50 
60 
60 
Variable renewables 
65 
40-45 
25-40 
Firm power 
- 
85-105 
85-105 
Dispatchable low-carbon power  
- 
100-205 
110-220 
 
Source: CCC analysis based on BEIS (2020) Electricity Generation Costs, CCC (2018) Hydrogen Review, Wood Group (2018) Assessing the Cost 
Reduction Potential and Competitiveness of Novel (Next Generation) UK Carbon Capture Technology. 
Notes: Costs in 2019 prices. Costs based on a central gas price scenario. Variable renewables include wind and solar. Firm power includes nuclear. 
Dispatchable low-carbon generation includes gas CCS, BECCS, and hydrogen. 
 
 
Our analysis shows that a near-zero electricity system has limited additional costs in 
2035 compared to a high-carbon system (e.g. up to £3 billion). By 2050 the annual 
additional cost ranges between -£5 billion and £9 billion across the scenarios. 
• 
Balanced Pathway. In this scenario, there is an additional cost in 2035 of £3 
billion compared to a high-carbon system. By 2050, costs decrease with the 
uptake of relatively cheap renewables, resulting in cost savings of £5 billion. 
• 
Headwinds. The additional cost in this scenario is £2 billion in 2050. With the 
lowest level of demand (550 TWh) and the highest share of the most 
expensive technologies, that implies a relatively high average cost of 
generation compared to the other scenarios.   
• 
Widespread Engagement. In 2050 there is no additional cost for delivering 
this scenario. Despite a higher level of demand (610 TWh), this is achieved 
through a greater use of relatively cheap renewables compared to the 
Headwinds scenario. 
• 
Widespread Innovation. This scenario has an additional cost of £2 billion in 
2050, but with the lowest average cost of generation. Compared to the 
Headwinds scenario it meets 25% more electricity demand for the same 
total cost. 
• 
Tailwinds. This scenario has an additional cost of £9 billion in 2050, which is 
the highest across all of the scenarios. That reflects the higher share of more 
expensive technologies in the generation mix (e.g. BECCS), combined with 
relatively high demand. 
 
These estimates compare to an additional annual cost of £4 billion in our 2019 Net 
Zero advice for moving to a low-carbon system in 2050. Since then renewables 
costs have fallen (e.g. offshore wind costs in the Government’s latest auction were 
£45/MWh for 2025 (in 2019 prices), compared to our previous assumption of 
£50/MWh in 2050), helping to reduce overall costs and increase the share of 
renewables in the scenario generation mixes. 
 
ii) Investment 
 
Delivering our scenarios will require significant investment in deploying the low-
carbon technologies needed to reduce emissions and meet new electricity 
demands. 
 
There are limited additional 
costs of decarbonisation by 
2035, and the Balanced 
Pathway is cost-saving by 
2050. 
Costs of decarbonisation have 
reduced since our 2019 advice 
on Net Zero, reflecting a 
reduction in cost of renewable 
generation. 
The additional investment 
required to decarbonise 
electricity generation peaks in 
the 2030s at around £15 billion 
per year. 
145 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.4.g shows the additional capital expenditure, and operational cost 
savings, for the Balanced Pathway compared to a high-carbon baseline. 
• 
The total additional capital investment required (compared to a high-
carbon system) rises to around £15 billion in 2035 and £5 billion in 2050.  
– Investment requirements peak in the 2030s, and are lower in the 
following period as costs of low-carbon technologies fall. 
– These investment costs include the additional cost of strengthening 
the electricity network to accommodate higher levels of demand. 
These costs make up around 30% of the total on average. 
– Capital investment in electricity generation helps avoid operational 
costs in other sectors, as those sectors electrify. 
• 
Total costs are lower than investment costs, given the significantly lower 
operational costs of running low-carbon technologies (i.e. renewables 
have no fuel input costs). The Balanced Pathway saves £10 billion in 
operational costs in 2050 compared to the high-carbon baseline. 
 
Overall, by 2050 the operational cost savings under the Balanced Pathway more 
than offset the additional investment required in electricity generation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This capital investment is more 
than offset by the operational 
cost savings it enables. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
146 
Figure 3.4.g Additional investment requirements 
For electricity generation in the Balanced Net  
Zero Pathway (2020-50) 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Chart shows additional capital and operational expenditure in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared 
to a high-carbon baseline. 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital investment peaks in 
the 2030s and by 2050 is more 
than offset by operational cost 
savings. 
147 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
iii) Co-impacts 
 
Reducing emissions in line with our scenarios will bring a range of co-benefits: 
• 
Air quality. Switching from use of unabated fossil fuel for electricity 
generation to zero-carbon generation (i.e. variable renewables, nuclear) 
will help improve air quality, given these have no emissions. In addition, 
there will be wider improvements in air quality through the electrification of 
buildings, transport, and industry.12 
• 
Electricity prices. Policy should ensure that electricity prices are cost-
reflective (i.e. they reflect the low cost of adding low-carbon capacity and 
account for any system costs they impose), so that barriers to electrification 
are reduced and electricity consumers benefit from cost reductions in 
these technologies. That could include moving some costs away from 
electricity bill payers and onto general taxation, including for legacy costs 
of early renewables deployment. Chapter 6 sets out our analysis on energy 
bills. 
• 
Industrial opportunities and Just Transition. The investment required to 
expand renewable generation, and to develop new markets in CCS and 
hydrogen, will help create new opportunities for firms, exports, and jobs. A 
strong signal from Government on the long-term pathway for these new 
sectors will help give industry and investors confidence to undertake the 
long-term investments required to unlock these benefits. 
– Exports. There is a significant opportunity for the UK to export 
engineering expertise, components, and services to the rapidly 
growing EU and global market for offshore wind. Similar opportunities 
would exist for CCS, where the UK is well placed to develop this 
industry, and hydrogen. 
– Just Transition and employment. New offshore wind, hydrogen and 
CCS industries could help support the Government’s ‘levelling up’ 
agenda through investment in regional economies, and by providing 
new jobs. A recent Policy Exchange study13 estimated these could 
lead to a net gain of 40,000 direct jobs, plus more across the wider 
supply chain. 
 
Further detail on the economy-wide co-benefits of the transition to Net Zero is set 
out in Chapter 5. 
 
 
There could be significant co-
benefits from decarbonising 
power, including for air quality, 
electricity prices, exports, and 
jobs 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
148 
5. Fuel supply 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway for Fuel Supply involves a transition from 
producing 1,100 TWh of fossil fuels and 170 TWh of bioenergy in 2018 to producing 
425 TWh of low-carbon hydrogen and bioenergy in 2050, for sectors of the 
economy that are likely to use fuels, rather than electricity. Production of fossil fuels 
will be much lower by 2050. 
 
Recent cost reductions for renewables mean that electrolytic hydrogen plays a 
greater role than in our previous work, especially after 2035. However, there is an 
important role for hydrogen produced from fossil gas with CCS in the medium term 
to enable applications for hydrogen to grow as necessary.  
 
Bioenergy resources increase in line with expanding UK production of forestry 
residues and perennial energy crops, with a wholesale shift to use with CCS 
accelerating during the 2030s. 
 
The Balanced Pathway also requires action to reduce emissions from the remaining 
fossil fuel supply (the main source of Fuel Supply emissions) by 75% by 2035 from 
2018 levels. Mitigation actions include fuel switching, CCS and technologies to 
reduce methane flaring, venting and leakage. 
 
The analysis draws on new consultancy work from Element Energy, existing 
bioenergy resource work from our 2018 Biomass in a low-carbon economy report, 
and aligns with our new waste resource assumptions from the Waste sector 
(section 9). Further details are set out in our Methodology Report. 
 
This section is split into three sub-sections: 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for Fuel Supply 
b) Alternative pathways to delivering abatement and fuel supplies 
c) Scenario impacts 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for Fuel Supply 
 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway includes actions to i) reduce emissions from Fuel 
Supply, which mainly derive from fossil fuel supply ii) scale up hydrogen supply to 
enable decarbonisation in other sectors iii) provide bioenergy to other sectors 
while managing sustainability and achieving negative emissions. 
 
i) Decarbonising fuel supply  
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway requires fossil fuel supply emissions to be reduced 
by 75% by 2035 from 2018 levels. While the Fuel Supply emissions category is 
dominated by emissions from fossil fuel supply, there are also some new emissions 
arising from future production of low-carbon hydrogen fuel.* This is reflected by the 
emissions wedge from hydrogen production above the baseline in Figure 3.5.a.  
 
 
*   Existing UK high-carbon hydrogen production for use as an industrial feedstock is included within our manufacturing 
sector. Our Fuel Supply sector contains low-carbon hydrogen to be used as a fuel. 
Growth in UK forestry and 
perennial energy crops is 
needed to supply sustainable 
biomass across the economy. 
Renewable electrolysis plays 
an increasingly important role 
in hydrogen supply, with CCS 
important in the medium term. 
The Balanced Pathway also 
requires action to reduce 
emissions from the remaining 
fossil fuel supply. 
149 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.5.a Sources of abatement in the 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the fuel supply 
sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: New hydrogen supply arising due to climate mitigation policy increases emissions relative to the baseline, so 
emissions appear above the baseline. As a result the Balanced Net Zero Pathway appears slightly above the 
bottom of the lowest wedge of emissions abatement. The biomethane abatement reflects biomethane use 
displacing residual natural gas use across the economy, not only in the fuel supply sectors. This means that the 
lowest emissions wedge drops slightly below zero in 2050. 
 
 
In this report, we have also accounted for abatement from the additional use of 
biomethane to displace fossil gas across the economy.* After accounting for 
hydrogen production and biomethane abatement, our Balanced Pathway for the 
whole Fuel Supply sector requires emissions to be reduced by around 80% by 2035 
from 2018 levels (Figure 3.5.a). 
 
The emissions from fossil fuel supply include those directly from oil refining, oil and 
gas production, oil and gas processing terminals, gas transmission and distribution 
networks and open and closed coal mines (see Methodology report for further 
details).Oil refineries emissions are abated through reduced oil demand, CCS and 
energy efficiency improvements. 
• 
Fuel switching away from petroleum across the economy, such as in 
surface transport, is the largest emissions reduction action. This reduces oil 
refining in the UK and the associated emissions by 5 MtCO2e/year by 2035. 
(Figure 3.5.a). 
 
 
*   While we have aggregated biomethane abatement and included this all within Fuel Supply, in practice the 
biomethane would abate emissions within the sectors where the use of fossil gas is displaced by biomethane.  
Refinery output will fall as a 
result of decarbonisation in the 
transport sector. Remaining 
refinery sites can be largely 
decarbonised. 
In our pathway, emissions from 
fossil fuel supply are reduced 
by 75 % by 2035 from 2018 
levels, through fuel switching, 
CCS and reduction of 
methane flaring, venting and 
leakage. 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
150 
• 
CCS is the main emissions reduction measure for the remaining emissions 
from oil refineries, with 1.5 MtCO2e/year of abatement in 2030, 3 
MtCO2e/year in 2035 and 4.5 MtCO2e/year in 2040. Energy efficiency 
measures also reduce emissions by 0.5 MtCO2e/year in 2035. 
 
Emissions from oil and gas production, predominantly from offshore platforms and 
from onshore processing terminals, are decarbonised mainly by fuel switching and 
measures to reduce methane flaring and venting: 
• 
Electrification of offshore platforms and processing terminals contributes 5 
MtCO2e/year of abatement in 2035. This involves 4 MtCO2e/year of 
electrification of compressors and generators on oil and gas platforms, 
which requires connecting the platforms to either the onshore electricity 
grid or offshore wind generation. The remaining 1 MtCO2e/year of 
electrification is at oil and gas processing terminals. These actions start in 
the mid-2020s, with some action electrification of platforms assumed to 
occur within our baseline. 
• 
Use of hydrogen plays a smaller role in the fossil fuel abatement pathways, 
providing 1 MtCO2e/year of abatement across platforms and terminals. 
• 
Measures to reduce methane flaring and venting, such as capturing the 
gas and selling it, and switching from venting to flaring (where safety 
requires at least one or the other) save 1.5 MtCO2e/year in 2030 and 1 
MtCO2e/year in 2035. 
 
Methane leaks from the gas distribution and transmission networks are reduced in 
the Balanced Pathway using a combination of Leakage Detection and Repair 
(LDAR) technologies and continuous monitoring technologies, resulting in 3.5 
MtCO2e/year in 2035. 
 
Other abatement measures in the fuel supply Balanced Pathway include 0.5 
MtCO2e/year of abatement in 2035 from a variety of resource efficiency measures 
across the economy and 1.5 MtCO2e/year of abatement from the use of 
biomethane to displace fossil gas in the gas grid. 
 
The largest sources of remaining emissions from fossil fuel supply in 2050 is from 
closed coal mines (0.4 MtCO2e/year). From the wider Fuel Supply sector, there is 
also 1 MtCO2e/year remaining from hydrogen production in 2050. 
 
ii) Low-carbon hydrogen supply 
 
The role for the hydrogen supply sector is to enable decarbonisation in other 
sectors while managing costs and wider energy system impacts. Hydrogen 
appears to be essential for reaching Net Zero, but it is important for it to be 
focused on the applications of highest value, where electrification is less feasible, 
and for it to be produced in a low-carbon way.  
 
Hydrogen demands in the Balanced Pathway start growing in the second half of 
the 2020s, before strong growth over the period 2030 to 2045. Manufacturing, 
shipping (as ammonia), and back-up power generation are the largest three 
sectors in terms of demand, with smaller contributions from other sectors including 
buildings and surface transport. 
 
 
 
 
 
Emissions from oil and gas 
production can be reduced 
by measures including 
increased electrification and 
reduced venting and flaring of 
gas. 
Monitoring systems are 
important to catch methane 
leaks from the gas network 
quickly. 
Low-carbon hydrogen will 
mainly be used in 
manufacturing, shipping and 
back-up power. 
151 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.5.b Hydrogen demands in the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Demand in shipping is likely to be as ammonia rather than compressed hydrogen. Demand given is for H2 
produced in the UK or for imports of H2. Imports of ammonia (used in shipping) and imports of synfuels (used in 
aviation) are not included, but on a H2 feedstock basis would equate to another 23 and 5 TWh respectively by 
2050 (i.e. 18 TWh of ammonia and 2.6 TWh of synfuels). 
 
In the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, hydrogen production is from a mix of supply 
routes, with differing contributions over time: 
• 
Electrolysis:  
– The relatively low costs of variable renewables, especially offshore 
wind, make it attractive to err on the side of ‘over-building’ renewable 
capacity relative to electricity demands, which generates a surplus of 
generation at some points of the year. Some of this generation that 
would otherwise be curtailed is then used to produce hydrogen, 
providing extra value from the renewable capacity.  
– However, over the period to 2035 the volumes of electrolytic hydrogen 
are constrained by how much renewable capacity can be built and 
contribute economically to meeting demands for electricity as well as 
hydrogen. Electrolysis comprises 21% of hydrogen supply by 2035, but 
this rises to 44% by 2050 as costs fall and supply constraints ease. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Hydrogen demand (TWh)
Surface transport
Buildings
Manufacturing and Construction
Power
Shipping
Aviation
Removals
Other
Hydrogen is supplied to UK 
users from a mix of renewable 
electrolysis, fossil gas with CCS, 
bioenergy with CCS, and 
imports. 
Hydrogen starts being used at 
scale in the late 2020s, 
ramping up significantly to 
2045. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
152 
• 
Fossil gas with CCS: Reformation of fossil gas with CCS is capable of 
producing low-carbon hydrogen at scale. However, it is not zero-carbon, 
with lifecycle emissions savings of up to 85% relative to unabated fossil 
gas.14 So, while reforming of fossil gas with CCS is important in establishing a 
mass market for hydrogen, providing around 60% of hydrogen supply by 
2035, it falls into more of a supporting role by 2050, providing 32% of 
hydrogen supply. The smaller share for hydrogen from fossil gas in 2050 limits 
emissions from the production process and upstream emissions from fossil 
gas supply. 
• 
Bioenergy with CCS (BECCS): Biomass undergoes gasification to produce 
biohydrogen, with the biogenic CO2 being captured and stored. This route 
provides 5% of supply by 2035 and 11% by 2050. 
• 
Imports: In the Balanced Pathway, imports of hydrogen made from 
renewable electrolysis abroad amount to 13% of total hydrogen 
consumption by 2050. There are also further imports of renewable ammonia 
used for shipping, and imports of synthetic jet fuel used for aviation. 
 
Figure 3.5.c Hydrogen supply in the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: This only includes H2 produced in the UK, or imports of H2. Imports of ammonia and synfuels are not plotted, 
but on a H2 feedstock basis would equate to another 23 TWh and 5 TWh respectively by 2050 (i.e. 18 TWh of 
ammonia and 2.6 TWh of synfuels). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Hydrogen supply (TWh)
Electrolysis
Fossil gas + CCS
Biomass + CCS
Imported hydrogen
Hydrogen made from fossil gas 
with CCS will have an 
important supply role, 
particularly in the 2030s while 
electrolysis ramps up. 
Hydrogen made from 
bioenergy with CCS can also 
provide negative emissions. 
The contribution of electrolysis 
increases over time, but 
reforming of fossil gas with CCS 
has an important transitional 
role. 
153 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
iii) Bioenergy supply 
 
Sustainable bioenergy is essential for reaching Net Zero. Given resource supply 
limitations, it must be used in those applications with the highest GHG savings 
(those with CO2 sequestration and/or displacement of high carbon alternatives).  
 
By 2050, the large majority (85%) of bioenergy will need to be used with CCS, 
achieving negative emissions, across electricity generation, industrial heating, 
biohydrogen production, biofuel production and waste incineration (Figure 3.5.d). 
 
Figure 3.5.d Bioenergy and waste use in the 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: These values are TWh/yr HHV, given as the starting CCC ‘Primary’ bioenergy and waste resources, i.e. solid 
biomass, gaseous biogas, liquid bioethanol and waste biodiesel, and solid wastes. There are minor differences 
between these total supply estimates and the total use estimates due to manufacturing and energy from waste 
modelling approximations.  
 
In the Balanced Pathway, bioenergy production occurs via a mix of supply routes, 
with differing contributions over time (Figure 3.5.e). A number of these routes 
involve CCS, with further details of the GHG removals involved given in section 11: 
• 
Solid biomass. Domestic and imported biomass feedstocks are supplied 
directly (without conversion) to the Power, Manufacturing & Construction, 
Residential & Non-residential Buildings and Agriculture sectors. Use of solid 
biomass in combustion boilers phases out in Buildings and Agriculture by the 
early 2040s. Manufacturing & Construction continues to use biomass, with a 
gradual decline over time, and with a small amount also used with CCS by 
2050.  
 
Sustainable bioenergy supply 
limitations mean that GHG 
savings from the use of 
biomass must be maximised. 
Biojet and biohydrogen are 
significant growth markets for 
bioenergy with CCS. Biomass 
power transitions to with CCS 
starting in the late 2020s. 
The majority of UK bioenergy 
supplies are currently solid 
biomass feedstocks. Use in 
building heating and 
unabated power plants will 
phase out. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
154 
Use in unabated biomass power plants quickly phases out in the late 2020s, 
while use in power with CCS starts to slowly ramp-up from the late 2020s (via 
retrofits and newbuild BECCS plants) to reach significant levels by 2040, 
providing 4% of electricity generation. Biomass imports comprise 21% of 
total bioenergy & waste supplies by 2050. 
• 
Biohydrogen. Solid biomass feedstocks are gasified then converted into 
hydrogen, with CCS. Deployment starts in 2030, and ramps-up as described 
in section ii) above. 
• 
Biojet. Solid biomass feedstocks are gasified then converted into aviation 
biofuel, with CCS. Starting from the mid-2020s, this route ramps-up to meet 
11% of aviation fuel demand by 2050. In addition, waste fats/oils are 
converted into biojet, with a transition from biodiesel in the 2030s, with their 
use alongside limited biojet imports ultimately meeting 6% of aviation 
demand by 2050. 
• 
Biodiesel. Solid biomass feedstocks are gasified then converted into 
biodiesel, with CCS. Starting from the mid-2020s, this route increases 
production to meet 2% of car/van diesel demand by the early 2030s, and 
10% of HGV/bus diesel demand by 2040. As liquid fuel volumes fall in each 
road transport mode, these plants transition to focus on biojet production. 
Biodiesel made from waste fats/oils in existing facilities, and imports, 
continue to supply 3% of road diesel. There is some additional use in off-
road machinery and agricultural equipment ramping up to the early 2030s, 
before phasing out by 2040. 
• 
Heating biofuels. A range of liquid biofuels made from biomass (with CCS) 
or from waste fats/oils can be used for home heating, including bio-LPG 
and biokerosene amongst other options. Starting from the mid-2020s, use of 
bioliquids ramps up to 5 TWh/year in the 2040s, supplying hybrid heat pump 
systems situated in homes off the gas-grid. 
• 
Bioethanol. Arable crops are fermented into bioethanol in existing facilities. 
After the 2021 increase of bioethanol blended into petrol (to 10% by 
volume, 7% by energy), supplies stay at this % of road petrol use. 
• 
Biomethane & biogas. Biogas produced from anaerobic digestion of food 
waste, sewage sludge & animal manures, plus captured landfill gas, can 
be upgraded to biomethane for gas grid injection, along with the capture 
of biogenic CO2 for sequestration. Biomethane injection more than trebles 
by 2030 from today’s levels. Biogas also continues to be used in Power and 
Manufacturing, although its use declines in the near-term with the fall in 
landfill gas. Combined, these routes could displace 10% of fossil gas in 2050. 
• 
Residual waste. After re-use & recycling, any residual waste volumes not 
exported or landfilled are predominantly incinerated in energy from waste 
plants, with some small use in Manufacturing. All energy from waste plants 
fit CCS by 2050, to capture the fossil and biogenic CO2 emissions resulting 
from the mixed fossil/biogenic waste fractions. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Waste fats/oils currently used 
for road transport biodiesel will 
transition to biojet during the 
2030s. 
Biodiesel has a potential 
transitional role in HGVs and 
buses, but over time will 
increasingly focus on biojet for 
aviation. 
Biomethane & biogas could 
displace up to 10% of UK gas 
demand, and biomethane 
injection into the gas grid more 
than trebles in the next 10 
years. 
155 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.5.e Bioenergy and waste supply in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: These values are TWh/yr HHV, given as the starting CCC ‘Primary’ bioenergy and waste resources, i.e. solid 
biomass, gaseous biogas, liquid bioethanol and waste biodiesel, and solid wastes. The dashed line shows the 
supply available to the UK were the UK to, in all years, use all of its fair share in the globally traded sustainable 
resource.  
 
 
b) Alternative pathways to delivering abatement and fuel supplies 
 
Our Fuel Supply scenarios i) set out different abatement pathways; ii) present a 
variety of hydrogen supply mixes; and iii) use different allocations of bioenergy for 
each end use sector. 
 
i) Decarbonising fuel supply 
 
The four exploratory pathways contain similar emissions abatement measures 
(concentrated in fossil fuel supply) to the Balanced Pathway. There could however 
be a greater role for hydrogen in the reducing emissions from offshore platforms 
and onshore processing terminals than reflected in the scenarios. Decarbonisation 
of emissions from increased onshore petroleum production, such as shale gas, is 
considered in our Widespread Innovation Scenario. 
 
The pace of decarbonisation differs slightly between scenarios, as a result of 
different future energy prices, supply-chain capacities and the varying levels of 
hydrogen production (Figure 3.5.f). 
 
 
 
Hydrogen could play a role in 
decarbonising oil and gas 
platforms. 
Imports are expected to go 
negative (i.e. the UK becomes 
a net biomass exporter) for a 
few years around 2030 if 
unabated biomass power 
plants close down faster than 
BECCS power plants start 
operating. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
156 
Figure 3.5.f Emissions pathways for the fuel supply 
sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
ii) Low-carbon hydrogen supply 
 
Low-carbon hydrogen demands vary considerably across the exploratory 
scenarios, with a range for total demand in 2050 of 160-375 TWh/year (Figure 3.5.g). 
This reflects different mixes of decarbonisation solutions being applied in the end-
use sectors, with the role in buildings heating particularly contributing to the upper 
end of demand. Hydrogen is also used in Direct Air Capture with CCS or synthetic 
jet fuel production in the Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds scenarios. 
 
Based on our assessment of available supply routes for hydrogen and the 
challenges they face, our scenarios for hydrogen demand are considerably lower 
than could be the case if hydrogen were used in all conceivable uses across the 
energy system (e.g. exceeding 800 TWh in 2050 compared to 225 TWh in the 
Balanced Pathway). 
 
This is due to limits on scaling up further the contributions on hydrogen supply from 
electrolysis (e.g. due to build rates for zero-carbon capacity and costs) and from 
BECCS (i.e. due to finite bioenergy supplies) – as a result, higher hydrogen demand 
would be likely to lead to much greater dependence on reforming fossil gas with 
CCS. In turn, this would increase residual emissions from hydrogen production and 
fossil fuel production, as well as increasing reliance on CCS and imported fossil gas. 
 
Our exploratory scenarios 
have a wide range for low-
carbon hydrogen use in 2050, 
due to end-use sector choices. 
The rate of progress 
decarbonising Fuel Supply 
since the 1990s to today needs 
to continue until the 2040s. 
157 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.5.g Sectoral hydrogen demands in 2050 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Demands in shipping is likely to be as ammonia rather than compressed hydrogen. Demand given is for H2 
produced in the UK or for imports of H2. Demands for imports of ammonia (for shipping) and imports of synfuels (for 
aviation) are not included. 
 
The mix of hydrogen supply routes that meet these demands also vary, depending 
on total hydrogen demand, technology costs and the development of the 
electricity system. High demand for low-carbon hydrogen leads to a higher 
contribution from fossil gas with CCS, whereas more renewables on the grid leads 
to more electrolysis (Figure 3.5.h): 
• 
In Headwinds, low-carbon hydrogen demand is relatively high (around 375 
TWh in 2050). This is primarily due to the high demand from buildings, which 
is around half of the total. The role of variable renewables on the electricity 
grid is lower than in other scenarios, which limits the role of electrolysis in 
2050 to 13% of supply. There are also relatively modest roles for BECCS (11%) 
and imports (14%). As a result of the higher demand, there is an increased 
role for hydrogen supply from reforming of fossil gas (63%), leading to a 
relatively high reliance on fossil gas imports and CCS. 
• 
In Widespread Engagement, low-carbon hydrogen demand is relatively low 
(around 160 TWh/year in 2050). Electrolysis supply follows a similar path to 
the Balanced Pathway, but due to the lower level of total hydrogen 
demand, electrolysis plays a bigger relative role in this scenario, meeting 
59% of supply by 2050. However, there is an important role for fossil gas with 
CCS, especially in the transition, which contributes 34% of supply in 2035 
and falls to 18% in 2050. Imports are also 23% in 2050, and there is no BECCS 
hydrogen assumed in this scenario. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Balanced
Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Hydrogen demand (TWh)
Surface transport
Buildings
Manufacturing and Construction
Power
Shipping
Aviation
Removals
Other
Scenarios demanding a lot of 
low-carbon hydrogen use 
more fossil gas with CCS, 
whereas scenarios with lots of 
renewables on the grid use 
more electrolysis. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
158 
• 
Widespread Innovation has a similar overall level of low-carbon hydrogen 
demand (233 TWh/year in 2050) as in the Balanced Pathway, as low-cost 
renewables enable electrification to outcompete hydrogen across a 
number of applications. However, the high share of low-cost variable 
renewables in the power system also means that electrolysis is particularly 
cost-effective compared to other low-carbon hydrogen supply options, 
and so electrolysis contributes strongly to UK supply (76% by 2050). Again, 
there is an important role for fossil gas with CCS in the transition, which 
provides 46% of supply in 2035 before falling into a back-up role supplying 
just 5% in 2050. The contribution of BECCS hydrogen production rises to 9% 
by 2050, and imports supply 10%. 
• 
Tailwinds is similar to the Widespread Innovation scenario by 2050, although 
it has significantly higher total hydrogen demand in earlier years, peaking 
at just over 250 TWh at the point this scenario reaches Net Zero in the early 
2040s. Electrolysis dominates the supply mix again, reaching 59% by 2050, 
with BECCS supplying much of the rest (26%). Due to the more rapid uptake 
of hydrogen in the period to 2035, fossil gas with CCS plays a crucial 
transitional role, supplying 66% of hydrogen in 2035 before falling into a 
back-up role of 2% by 2050. Imports provide 12% of supply in 2050. 
 
Figure 3.5.h Hydrogen supply in 2050 across  
the scenarios 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: This only considers H2 produced in the UK, or imports of H2. Imports of ammonia and synfuels are not plotted. 
 
 
 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Balanced
Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
Hydrogen supply (TWh)
Electrolysis
Fossil gas + CCS
Biomass + CCS
Imports
Low cost renewables on the 
grid leads to cheaper 
electrolysis but also cheaper 
electrification of end use 
sectors. Electrolysis can 
dominate hydrogen supplies 
by 2050. 
Scenarios with a very rapid 
uptake in demand for low-
carbon hydrogen will rely on 
fossil gas with CCS in the 
transition. 
159 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
iii) Bioenergy supply 
 
Demands for bioenergy and waste vary considerably across the exploratory 
scenarios, with a range for total primary bioenergy supplies used in 2050 of 210-390 
TWh/year (before any further conversion within the Fuel Supply sector). This reflects 
different mixes of feedstocks, conversion technologies and end-use solutions, with 
the role of BECCS power and BECCS hydrogen contributing to the largest 
differences between the scenarios. 
 
Figure 3.5.i Bioenergy and waste use in 2050  
across the scenarios 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: These values are HHV, given as the starting CCC ‘Primary’ bioenergy and waste resources, i.e. solid biomass, 
gaseous biogas, liquid bioethanol and waste biodiesel, and solid wastes. 
 
 
Domestic bioenergy compromises the large majority of our supply estimates, with 
biomass imports only contributing significantly to the higher supply scenarios. The 
mix of domestic bioenergy and waste supplies that meet these demands also vary: 
• 
In the Headwinds scenario, bioenergy demand is relatively high. The role of 
variable renewables in electricity is lower than in other scenarios, allowing a 
larger role for BECCS power, and high hydrogen use allows a large role for 
BECCS hydrogen. Less waste prevention & recycling also leads to more use 
in energy from waste. By 2050, 42% of total supply is from biomass imports. 
 
 
Our exploratory scenarios 
have a wide range for 
bioenergy use by 2050, due to 
different assumptions on 
supply availabilities. 
The largest differences 
between the scenarios are 
due to differing use in BECCS 
power, hydrogen and energy-
from-waste. 
Domestic feedstocks have a 
larger role than biomass 
imports, which only contribute 
significantly in high bioenergy 
demand scenarios. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
160 
• 
In Widespread Engagement, bioenergy demand is low. Due to lower 
hydrogen demand, there is no role for BECCS hydrogen. Waste prevention 
and recycling, and allocation to jet production, results in low use in energy 
from waste plants. By 2050, 25% of total supply comes from biomass imports, 
with very limited uptake of domestically grown perennial energy crops. 
• 
The Widespread Innovation scenario has less hydrogen demand across the 
economy, and very high levels of low-cost renewable electricity, resulting in 
more modest roles for BECCS power and BECCS hydrogen by 2050. There is 
earlier use of biomass gasification to biomethane, before these plants 
transition to biohydrogen and retrofit CCS from the mid-2030s. This scenario 
relies heavily on domestically grown perennial energy crops, making up 
36% of total supply by 2050, and biomass imports phase out by 2050. 
• 
The Tailwinds scenario combines the most ambitious elements of the above 
three scenarios, with the high biomass imports from Headwinds (providing 
40% of total supply by 2050), the high deployment of domestically grown 
perennial energy crops in Widespread Innovation (providing 23% of total 
supply by 2050), and ambitious action on waste prevention & recycling as 
in Widespread Engagement. The result is significantly more biomass 
available for BECCS power and hydrogen. As in Widespread Innovation, 
there is also a transitional role for biomass gasification to biomethane. 
 
Figure 3.5.j Bioenergy and waste supply in 2050  
across the scenarios 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: These values are HHV, given as the starting CCC ‘Primary’ bioenergy and waste resources, i.e. solid biomass, 
gaseous biogas, liquid bioethanol and waste biodiesel, and solid wastes. There are minor differences between 
these total supply estimates and the total use estimates due to manufacturing and energy from waste modelling 
approximations. MSW = Municipal Solid Waste. C&I = Commercial and Industrial. 
Waste could be used in jet fuel 
production instead of 
generating electricity in 
energy-from-waste plants. 
Biomass imports can be 
phased out by 2050 if UK 
supplies of forestry and 
perennial energy crops are 
expanded significantly. 
Across our scenarios, biomass 
imports make up between 0% 
and 42% of total supply. The 
Balanced Pathway has 21%. 
161 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
c) Scenario impacts 
 
The Balanced Pathway will incur additional financial costs in the Fuel Supply sector 
associated with reducing emissions from fuel supply, and the production of low-
carbon fuels. Essential to this transition from fossil fuel production to low-carbon fuel 
production, is a just transition for workers in the declining fossil fuel sectors (see 
Chapter 6). 
 
We estimate the annualised cost of the Balanced Pathway for decarbonising 
(mainly fossil) fuel supply to be around £1 billion /year in 2030, peaking just below 
£2 billion/year in 2040 before declining to £1 billion/year in 2050s. In 2035, this 
represents an average cost of abatement across all measures of around 
£70/tCO2e. The costs of producing hydrogen and bioenergy supply are accounted 
for in abatement costs in those sectors in which the hydrogen and bioenergy are 
used to reduce emissions. 
 
Figure 3.5.k sets out the capital and operational costs across the Fuel Supply sector. 
This includes the capital and operating costs of low-carbon fuels – these costs are 
also accounted for in the operational fuel costs paid for by sectors that use low-
carbon fuels (e.g. shipping, aviation, manufacturing). 
 
Figure 3.5.k Additional capital and operating 
costs for the fuel supply sector in the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Hydrogen supply wedges also account for costs associated with production of ammonia and synthetic 
fuels. Opex costs are positive in the fuel supply sector. 
 
 
We estimate the annualised 
cost of our Balanced Pathway 
to decarbonise fossil fuel 
supply is around £1 billion/year 
in 2030. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
162 
Investment costs for hydrogen supply result from development of hydrogen 
storage and network infrastructure, plus investment in electrolysis and fossil gas with 
CCS capacity. Overall capital investment for hydrogen supply increases to around 
£4 billion/year by the 2040s, with operating costs peaking at around £4 billion/year 
during the 2040s. 
 
These hydrogen supply cost wedges include the investment and operating costs 
for new ammonia (for shipping) and synthetic jet fuel (for aviation) production 
facilities, that use some of the low-carbon hydrogen produced in the Fuel Supply 
sector. In the Balanced Pathway, building UK ammonia plants will require capital 
investment of around £400 million/year in the early 2030s and early 2040s, and UK 
synthetic jet fuel plants will require investment of £250 million/year by 2040. 
 
There is also a share of ammonia and synthetic jet supplied via imports (25% 
assumed for both sectors in the Balanced Pathway). These imports are assumed to 
be produced from renewable electrolysis and air separation/direct air capture, 
and this fuel cost is only counted in the relevant end-use sectors. 
 
Investment costs for bioenergy supply result from the construction of new biojet, 
biodiesel, heating bioliquids, biomethane and biohydrogen conversion facilities. 
These are capital intensive, as well as having significant ongoing operating costs 
due to biomass feedstock costs. However, the added costs of installing CCS onto a 
biofuel/biohydrogen plant are generally modest, given the availability of high 
concentration CO2 streams at these facilities.  
 
Bioenergy conversion plant investment costs peak at £670 million/year around 
2030, due to this being the fastest period of growth in these bioenergy facilities, 
before falling to £200 million/year by 2050. Operating costs, including biomass 
feedstock costs, ramp-up over time to reach £2.8 billion/year by 2050. On both 
capital and operating metrics, biojet and biohydrogen conversion plants 
dominate these bioenergy fuel supply costs. 
 
 
 
 
Ammonia and synthetic jet 
fuel plants will require 
significant investment, and 
local low-cost hydrogen 
sources. 
Bioenergy conversion costs 
within the Fuel Supply sector 
are dominated by 
biohydrogen and biojet routes. 
Low-carbon hydrogen supply 
investment costs are 
dominated by storage and 
network costs. 
 
163 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
6. Agriculture and land use, land-use change and forestry 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Combined agriculture and land greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were 67 MtCO2e 
in 2018, which could fall to 40 MtCO2e by 2035 in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway. 
Annual savings total 25 MtCO2e when compared to emissions in the Business as 
Usual scenario in 2035 (Figure 3.6.a). By 2050 residual emissions reach 16 MtCO2e 
under the Balanced Pathway but fall to Net Zero by 2047 in the Wider Innovation 
and Tailwinds scenarios.  
 
Delivering this transition requires a transformation in the use of land. Around 9% of 
agricultural land will be needed for actions to reduce emissions and sequester 
carbon by 2035 with 21% needed by 2050.* Improvements in agricultural 
productivity and a trend towards healthier diets are key to releasing land for 
afforestation, peatland restoration and bioenergy crops.  
 
Investment of £1.5 billion per year by 2035 will be required to implement the 
necessary changes, but there will be co-benefits for health and recreation, air 
quality, flood alleviation and biodiversity. 
 
Our analysis balances the need to reduce emissions from land with other essential 
functions of land including maintaining food production and adapting to climate 
impacts. We draw on our previous reports,15 new modelling work by the Centre for 
Ecology and Hydrology (CEH) on land-based pathways,16 and Scotland’s Rural 
College (SRUC)17 on options to reduce agricultural emissions as well as extensive 
literature reviews and stakeholder engagement. 
 
The rest of this section is set out in five parts: 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for agriculture 
b) Alternative routes to reducing agriculture emissions  
c) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the land use sector 
d) Alternative routes to reducing land use emissions 
e) Scenario impacts: costs, benefits and co-impacts on society  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Rises to 11% and 23% when including land for settlement growth. 
Land is a critical natural asset 
providing a range of essential 
goods and services as well as 
carbon storage. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
164 
Figure 3.6.a GHG savings from measures to  
Reduce agriculture and land use emissions, 
2035 (MtCO2e) 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; Centre for Ecology and 
Hydrology (2020); CCC analysis. 
Notes: ‘Other’ forestry and energy crops is the additional savings elsewhere in the economy by displacing fossil 
fuels with biomass material. These are annual savings compared to emissions in the baseline in 2035. Numbers are 
rounded.  
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for agriculture  
 
Agricultural emissions were 54.6 MtCO2e in 2018, 10% of UK greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHGs). Completely decarbonising the agricultural sector is not possible 
(on current understanding) due to the inherent biological and chemical processes 
in crop and livestock production. However, there are options to reduce these 
emissions covering behaviour change, productivity improvements and the take-up 
of low-carbon farming practices. Our analysis starts with the assumption that land is 
prioritised for housing and other economic activity and food production before 
climate objectives. We estimate that sectoral emissions could fall to 39 MtCO2e in 
2035, and to 35 MtCO2e by 2050 in the Balanced Pathway (Figure 3.6.b.).* 
• 
Low-carbon farming practices. We commissioned SRUC to assess the 
abatement potential from measures to reduce emissions from soils (e.g. 
grass leys and cover crops), livestock (e.g. diets and breeding) and waste 
and manure management (e.g. anaerobic digestion). These reduce 
agricultural emissions by 4 MtCO2e in 2035. This takes account of the 
interaction with other actions, notably diet change, which reduces the 
abatement potential of these measures over time (Table 3.6.a).  
 
 
*   All abatement savings are in reference to GHG emissions under the Business as Usual (BAU) scenario in that year.  
Our scenarios assume land for 
food and housing objectives 
are met first. 
165 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Fossil fuel use in agriculture. Currently 18 TWh of fossil fuels are used in 
agricultural vehicles, buildings and machinery, resulting in emissions of 4.6 
MtCO2e. Options to decarbonise fossil fuel use are similar to those in surface 
transport, off-road machinery in industry and commercial buildings. These 
cover electrification, biofuels, hydrogen and hybrid vehicles. Our Balanced 
Pathway assumes biofuels and electrification options are taken-up from the 
mid-2020s and hydrogen from 2030, reducing emissions to 2 MtCO2e in 
2035.  
• 
Measures to release land. Changes in consumer and farmer behaviour can 
release land from agriculture while maintaining a strong food production 
sector. We considered five measures that could release land covering 
societal changes and improvements in agricultural productivity. Our 
analysis implies that these five measures could reduce annual agricultural 
GHG emissions by 8 MtCO2e by 2035, rising to just over 11 MtCO2e by 2050, 
with diet change the most significant: 
– Diet change. Our Balanced Pathway involves a 20% shift away from 
meat and dairy products by 2030, with a further 15% reduction of meat 
products by 2050. These are substituted with plant-based options. This 
is within range of the Climate Assembly’s recommendations for a 20-
40% reduction in meat and dairy consumption by 2050.18 Our pathway 
results in a reduction in livestock numbers and grassland area, 
delivering annual abatement of 7 MtCO2e by 2035, rising to nearly 10 
MtCO2e by 2050. 
– Food waste. We assume food waste is halved across the supply chain 
by 2030 in line with the Waste and Resources Action Programme’s 
(WRAP) UK Food Waste Reduction Roadmap. This would reduce UK 
emissions by almost 1 MtCO2e in 2035. 
– Productivity improvements. There is scope for further abatement from 
measures to increase agricultural productivity, which in our Balanced 
Pathway could reduce emissions by 1 MtCO2e in 2035 and 2050. These 
cover crops and livestock: 
• Improving crop yields without the need for additional inputs such 
as fertiliser and pesticides can be achieved through improved 
agronomic practices, technology and innovation while taking 
account of climate impacts. Our Balanced Pathway assumes that 
wheat yields increase from an average of 8 tonnes/hectare 
currently to 11 tonnes/hectare by 2050 (with equivalent increases 
for other crops).  
• Stocking rates for livestock can be increased through improving 
productivity of grasslands and management practices such as 
rotational grazing. Evidence suggests there is scope to sustainably 
increase stocking rates in the UK.19 
– Moving horticulture indoors. Shifting 10% of horticulture production 
indoors under a controlled environment reduces the carbon, nutrient, 
land and water footprint.  
 
Delivering emissions reduction should not be at the expense of increasing food 
imports that risk ‘carbon leakage’. Therefore, both production and consumption of 
the highest carbon foods need to fall.  
Deep emissions reduction in 
agriculture and land cannot 
be achieved without changes 
in the way land is used in the 
UK 
Productivity improvement in 
agriculture through innovation 
and better agronomy are vital.  
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
166 
Our analysis assumes that the same proportion of UK food demand is met by UK 
food production in 2050 as is the case currently.* The carbon footprint of the UK’s 
imported food would also fall, with the change in diets reflected in reduced 
imports of meat and dairy products. Policy will need to be carefully designed to 
ensure that risks of carbon leakage are avoided (see the accompanying Policy 
Report: Policies for the Sixth Carbon Budget & Net Zero). 
 
Figure 3.6.b Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the agriculture  
sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; SRUC (2020); CCC analysis. 
 
b) Alternative routes to reducing agriculture emissions  
 
We explore alternative pathways for transitioning to Net Zero by varying the 
deployment rate, timing and ambition of the measures outlined above. We also 
consider other options that could emerge over time, given investment in R&D and 
innovation as well as wider public acceptability for options that require behaviour 
change (Table 3.6.a).  
 
The alternative pathways deliver annual emissions savings ranging between 9–19 
MtCO2e by 2035 relative to the baseline. Apart from the Headwinds scenario, these 
deliver higher GHG savings than the 13 MtCO2e in the Balanced Pathway (Figure 
3.6.c).  
 
 
*   Taking account of the nutritional composition of different food after diet change. 
167 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• Low-carbon farming measures. We assume the take-up of measures associated 
with changing farming practices (e.g. planting cover crops, livestock health 
measures and feeding cattle a high starch diet) is highest in the Widespread 
Engagement scenario, and take-up of more innovative options (e.g. 3NOP 
additives, GM cattle, and breeding) is highest in Widespread Innovation. 
However, there is relatively little difference in emissions savings across these 
scenarios, which vary from 4 MtCO2e in Widespread Engagement to 5 MtCO2e 
under Headwinds by 2035. 
• Agricultural machinery. While the mix of technologies differ across the 
pathways, they all achieve the same level of abatement by 2050. Which 
technologies emerge will depend on technology development and costs. 
• Measures to release land. Among the measures to release land, moving diets 
away from the most carbon-intensive foods delivers the highest emissions 
savings. A higher or lower willingness to act on changing diets, reducing food 
waste and productivity improvements could change emissions relative to the 
Balanced Pathway:  
– Under the Widespread Engagement scenario, a greater shift away 
from meat and dairy (e.g. a 50% switch by 2050) and a greater 
willingness to act on food waste results in additional GHG savings of 2 
MtCO2e in 2035. 
– In the Widespread Innovation scenario, we assume that technology 
develops lab-grown meat for the market, such that 30% of the higher 
level of diet shift is towards lab-grown meat rather than plant-based 
alternatives. This results in 5 MtCO2e additional GHG savings by 2035.  
– In the Headwinds scenario we assume a 20% shift away from meat 
and dairy products is achieved by 2050 instead of 2035. There is no 
further reduction in food waste beyond the 50% target reached in 
2030. This results in 6 MtCO2e lower GHGs savings in 2035 than the 
Balanced Pathway.  
– Crop breeding (e.g. development of new cultivars /traits) could lead 
to higher yields (e.g. to 13 tonnes/hectare for wheat by 2050). Higher 
livestock stocking densities on permanent grassland releases around 
0.8 million more hectares of land out of agricultural production under 
the Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds scenarios compared with 
the Balanced Pathway. These result in 1 MtCO2e additional GHG 
savings in 2035.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Implementing low-carbon 
practices offers some emissions 
reduction but is not enough for 
Net Zero.   
 
 
Diet change away from meat 
and dairy offers the biggest 
potential to release 
agricultural land for other uses. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
168 
Figure 3.6.c Emissions pathways for the  
agriculture sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; SRUC (2020); CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
169 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 3.6.a 
Summary of key differences in the agriculture sector scenarios 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Behaviour 
change and 
demand 
reduction 
 
Medium level: 
20% cut in meat 
and dairy by 
2030, rising to 
35% by 2050 for 
meat only. All 
replaced with 
plant-based; 
and 
 
Medium level: 
50% cut in food 
waste by 2030, 
60% by 2050. 
 
Low level:  
20% shift away 
from all meat 
types and dairy 
products to all 
plant-based by 
2050; and  
 
 
Low level: 50% 
fall in food 
waste by 2030, 
with no further 
reduction. 
High level:  
50% less meat 
and dairy by 
2050. All 
replaced with 
plant-based; 
and 
 
 
 
High level: 50% 
fall in food 
waste by 2030, 
70% by 2050. 
High level: 
50% less meat 
and dairy by 
2050 with 30% of 
meat replaced 
with lab-grown 
meat.  
 
 
 
Medium level: 
50% cut in food 
waste by 2030, 
60% by 2050. 
Diet change 
aligned to 
Wider 
Innovation. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Food waste 
reduction 
aligned to 
Widespread 
Engagement. 
 
Other land 
release 
measures 
 
Aligned to 
Headwinds. 
Medium level 
for increasing 
average crop 
yields, livestock 
stocking rates 
on grassland 
and shifting 
horticulture 
indoors. 
 
Medium level 
for increasing 
average crop 
yields and 
shifting 
horticulture 
indoors.  
 
Low level for 
increasing 
livestock 
stocking rates 
on grassland. 
 
High level for 
increasing 
average crop 
yields, livestock 
stocking rates 
on grassland 
and shifting 
horticulture 
indoors. 
Aligned to 
Widespread 
Innovation. 
Low-carbon 
farming 
practices 
 
Aligned to 
Headwinds. 
Lower uptake: 
50-75% for both 
behavioural 
and innovation 
measures. 
 
High uptake of 
behavioural 
measures 60-
80%; and lower 
uptake 50-75% 
for innovative 
measures. 
 
High uptake of 
innovation 
measures 60-
80%; and lower 
uptake 50-75% 
for behavioural 
measures. 
Aligned to 
Widespread 
Innovation. 
Agricultural 
machinery 
 
Aligned to 
Headwinds. 
Mix of 
electrification, 
hydrogen and 
later phase-out 
of biofuels. 
 
Focus on 
electrification 
and biofuels. 
Hydrogen, 
electrification 
and biofuels. 
Aligned to 
Widespread 
Innovation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
170 
c) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the land use sector  
 
Land sector emissions were 12.8 MtCO2e in 2018, equivalent to 2% of UK GHG 
emissions. The land-based measures in the Balanced Pathway could deliver annual 
savings (against a baseline) of 12 MtCO2e in 2035, and 30 MtCO2e by 2050, moving 
the sector to a net sink of 19 MtCO2e by 2050 (Figure 3.6.d). Further emissions 
reduction could be delivered in other sectors from the use of biomass material e.g. 
in displacing fossil fuels or when used with Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Key 
measures to achieve this are: 
• 
Afforestation. Scaling up afforestation rates to 30,000 hectares a year by 
2025 in line with the UK Government’s commitment, rising to 50,000 
hectares annually by 2035. This would increase woodland cover from 13% 
of UK land area to around 18% by 2050*, with a mix of tree types that focus 
on broadleaves. This could deliver annual savings of over 2 MtCO2e in 2035 
and 12 MtCO2e in 2050. It is important that the right tree is planted in the 
right place. Decisions on tree planting should take account of biophysical 
suitability of different species, projected climate impacts and other 
constraints and uses of land.  
• 
Peatlands. Full restoration of upland peat by 2045 (or stabilisation if 
degradation is too severe to restore) and re-wetting and sustainable 
management of 60% of lowland peat by 2050. These would deliver annual 
saving of nearly 6 MtCO2e by 2035 and around 10 MCO2e by 2050.  
• 
Energy crops. Planting perennial energy crops (e.g. miscanthus and short-
rotation coppice) alongside short rotation forestry needs to accelerate 
quickly to at least 30,000 hectares a year by 2035, so that 700,000 hectares 
are planted by 2050. This could sequester 2 MtCO2e by 2035 and over 6 
MtCO2e by 2050. When used with Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) 
technologies this could displace a further 3 MtCO2e of GHG emissions 
elsewhere in the economy by 2035, increasing to 10 MtCO2e by 2050.  
• 
Other land measures. Increasing on-farm diversification with the integration 
of trees on 10% of farmland and extending the length of hedgerows by 40% 
by 2050. Together with better woodland and hedge management, these 
could increase annual carbon removals by over 1 MtCO2e by 2035 and by 
nearly 3 MtCO2e in 2050.  
 
Our analysis balances the need to reduce land-based emissions with other 
essential functions of land. The Balanced Pathway sets out a desirable and 
achievable level of ambition across all options. Together, our measures result in 
more land released out of agriculture than is required and choices will need to be 
made on how to use this land: 
• 
The Balanced Pathway requires 9% of land to be released from agriculture 
for measures that reduce emissions and sequester carbon by 2035, rising to 
a fifth by 2050.† This rises to 11% and almost a quarter when taking account 
of land needed for settlement growth by 2035 and 2050 respectively.  
• 
The measures we identify to release land result in 2 million more hectares 
than is required by our scenarios by 2035. 
 
 
 
*   Total woodland area increases to 18.6% if we include the 15% open ground area assumed in the afforestation 
target.  
†   A further 1% of non-agricultural land that is forested peat and peat extraction sites is also restored by 2035. 
Planting 50,000 hectares a 
year would increase 
woodland cover from 13% to 
18% of UK land area by 2050. 
As well as carbon sequestration 
peatlands provide other vital 
services such as water regulation, 
flood protection and habitats for 
wildlife. 
171 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Choices on how this additional land could be used include less-intensive 
farming (e.g. agroecology farming), measures to deliver deeper emissions 
reduction (e.g. more tree planting) and conversion to other uses (e.g. 
wildflower meadows and natural regeneration) to deliver wider 
environmental benefits. The GHG impacts of these options are not included 
in our scenarios due to the lack of robust evidence on the abatement 
potential (see Chapter 7 of the Methodology Report). 
 
Figure 3.6.d Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the LULUCF  
sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; Centre for Ecology and 
Hydrology (2020); CCC analysis. 
 
d) Alternative routes to reducing land use emissions 
 
We explore different pathways for emissions by varying key factors such as roll-out 
rates of land-based measures, timings of behavioural measures and technological 
progress impacting productivity (Table 3.6.b). These exploratory scenarios lead to 
both lower and higher ambition compared to the Balanced Pathway (Figure 
3.6.e): 
• 
The Widespread Engagement scenario assumes that higher ambition on 
diet change and food waste reduction can be achieved with greater 
societal engagement. This allows for a higher level of woodland creation of 
70,000 hectares by 2035.  
Natural regeneration and 
biodiverse habitat creation 
can be part of the picture, but 
work is needed to understand 
the carbon impacts. 
There are choices in the type 
of woodland planted but 
these need to take account 
of local topography and 
other objectives for land. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
172 
In this scenario we also assume that tree planting is focused on more 
biodiverse woodlands (e.g. higher broadleaf mix) over productive forestry 
and planting of energy crops is reduced to a third. This results in 1 MtCO2e 
more GHG emissions in 2035 compared to the Balanced Pathway. 
• 
The Widespread Innovation scenario is characterised by technological 
solutions, increasing yields of food crops, trees and energy crops and a 
doubling in the planting rate of energy crops. Compared with the 
Balanced Pathway, this results in 4 MtCO2e additional emissions savings in 
2035. 
• 
The Headwinds scenario assumes less progress on behavioural change to 
release land and the same ambition on technological progress on yields 
and productivity measures. There is lower ambition on afforestation, with 
30,000 hectares per year in the 2030s, and peatland, with 50% less lowland 
peat rewetted by 2035. This results in residual emissions that are 3 MtCO2e 
higher in 2035.  
 
• 
Tailwinds delivers faster progress on behaviour change, technological 
improvement and more ambition on converting agricultural land to the 
planting of all types of biomass. Emissions are 6 MtCO2e lower by 2035 
compared with the Balanced Pathway.  
 
Figure 3.6.e Emissions pathways for the LULUCF 
sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; Centre for Ecology and 
Hydrology (2020); CCC analysis. 
 
173 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
These scenarios draw out potential choices that society could make on how far to 
change current consumption patterns, the types of trees planted and use of 
innovation and technology:  
• 
Diet change. A higher ambition on switching away from meat (e.g. 28% by 
2035) would release around a fifth more land out of agricultural production 
than in the Balanced Pathway. This allows for increased afforestation, trees 
on-farm, and the planting of energy crops. The differing levels of ambition 
for each are explored in the Widespread Engagement and Widespread 
Innovation scenarios.   
• 
CCS. The roll-out of CCS elsewhere in the economy could determine how 
land could be used. Bioenergy crops used with CCS deliver more GHG 
savings than standing forest alone (see Methodology report). If widespread 
CCS is needed more land will be required for energy crops (e.g. 60,000 
hectares per year by 2035) with a focus on improving energy crop yields 
(Widespread Innovation). Where the ambition for CCS is low (the 
Widespread Engagement scenario), energy crop planting is just 10,000 
hectares by 2035, with a greater emphasis on afforestation.  
• 
Afforestation in the Widespread Engagement and Widespread Innovation 
scenarios achieves similar levels of annual sequestration by 2050 (around 15 
MtCO2e) but differences in afforestation rates and planting regimes drive 
different cumulative sequestration rates to 2050: 
– The Widespread Engagement scenario has the highest level of 
afforestation (70,000 hectares a year from 2035), and societal 
preference for more biodiverse woodlands results in lower planting 
density and a higher mix of broadleaves. This pathway sequesters 149 
MtCO2e cumulative GHGs by 2050. This rises to 155 MtCO2e when 
Including use of harvested material elsewhere in the economy.* 
– The Wider Innovation scenario is focused on delivering more 
productive forestry, resulting in higher planting density and a higher 
proportion of conifers with higher yields. These factors offset the lower 
planting rates (50,000 hectares a year from 2030), sequestering 178 
MtCO2e to 2050. This rises to 182 MtCO2e when including emissions 
abated by using harvested material in other sectors.  
 
Table 3.6.b  
Summary of key differences in the LULUCF sector scenarios 
 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Headwinds 
Afforestation 
30,000 
hectares/year 
by 2025 then 
rising to 50,000 
hectares by 
2035.  
 
 
 
 
 
70,000 
hectares/year 
by 2035, low 
yields, greater 
mix towards 
broadleaf 
 
 
 
 
50,000 
hectares/year 
by 2030. High 
yields, high mix 
of conifers 
70,000 
hectares/year 
by 2035, high 
yields. 
30,000 
hectares/year 
by 2035. 
 
 
*   Based on the harvest material from the planting of new broadleaves only. 
If bioenergy with CCS is not 
needed it is better to plant 
trees than bioenergy crops. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
174 
Peatlands 
Aligned to 
Widespread 
Engagement. 
All upland peat 
restored by 
2045. 40% 
lowland 
cropland 
rewetted & 35% 
sustainably 
managed. 
All upland peat 
restored by 
2045. 25% 
lowland 
cropland 
rewetted & 50% 
sustainably 
managed.  
Aligned to 
Widespread 
Engagement. 
All upland peat 
restored by 
2050. 20% 
lowland 
cropland 
rewetted & 30% 
sustainably 
managed. 
Energy crops 
Aligned to 
Headwinds. 
Low energy 
crop planting 
(0.23 million 
hectares by 
2050) and 
yields. 
High energy 
crop planting 
(1.4 million 
hectares by 
2050) and 
yields. 
Aligned to 
Widespread 
Innovation. 
Medium energy 
crop planting 
(0.7 million 
hectares by 
2050) and 
yields. 
Notes: Land release measures are the same as in Table 3.6.a 
 
e) Scenario impacts 
 
In this section we set out estimates of the costs and benefits of delivering the 
Balanced Pathway in agriculture and land use. Our assessment is that private costs 
exceed private benefits by £1.7 billion in 2035. Wider societal benefits of £0.1 billion 
in 2035 could be delivered from improved air filtration, flood alleviation, health and 
recreation. There are likely to be further environmental benefits (e.g. biodiversity 
and water quality) but we have been unable to quantify these.  
 
Costs and benefits  
 
Our assessment of costs and benefits updates work we commissioned from Vivid 
Economics20 and SRUC. It covers all private costs and benefits and wider social 
benefits of increased recreation, improved air quality, improved health and flood 
alleviation. Wider environmental impacts on biodiversity and water quality are 
assessed qualitatively.  
Delivering the Balanced Pathway will require significant up-front investment in 
trees, bioenergy crops, peatland restoration and peat management and for some 
agricultural measures such as AD plants, zero-carbon machinery and livestock 
breeding. Some of this will be offset by revenues from harvested materials. It will 
require a scaling up of supply chains and investment in training, skills and R&D to 
overcome non-financial barriers.  
• 
The Balanced Pathway requires net investment of £1.5 billion in 2035, with 
£1.4 billion in the land sector and £0.1 billion for agricultural measures. 
Woodland creation and energy crops are the most significant (Figure 3.6.f).  
• 
On-going operating costs are associated with managing woodlands and 
hedges, harvesting biomass from trees and energy crops, maintenance of 
peatlands and on-going costs for zero-carbon fuels and farming practices. 
These are estimated at £0.3 billion in 2035.  
• 
These are partly offset by revenues from the sale of harvested products 
from energy crops, existing broadleaf woodlands and thinnings from the 
planting of new trees, estimated at £0.1 billion in 2035.  
• 
Addressing non-financial barriers for many of these options include 
widespread information around new practices, re-skilling, and tenancy 
issues for tenant farmers. More innovative options (e.g. improved crop 
varieties and use of hydrogen) will require R&D and market 
commercialisation to bring these to market. 
 
Significant investment and 
scaling up forestry and 
bioenergy sectors are needed 
to meet Net Zero. 
175 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.6.f Net investment costs in the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
Wider social and environmental impacts 
 
We estimate that the social benefits of land-based measures will contribute around 
£0.1 billion per year to the UK economy by 2035, rising to £0.6 billion per year by 
2050 in the Balanced Pathway. The largest of these is recreation benefits from 
increased use of woodlands (74%), physical health benefits from exercising in the 
natural environments (14%), air filtration from increased natural vegetation, 
primarily trees near urban areas and flood risk alleviation from woodland creation 
in the upper catchments of rivers. There are also impacts on biodiversity and water 
quality which have not been possible to quantify. These are detailed in the 
Methodology Report.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
2000
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
£ Million
Energy crops & SRF
Broadleaf planting
Conifer planting
Peatland restoration
Agriculture measures
Agroforestry & hedges
Societal benefits take time to 
scale up but can deliver £0.6 
billion by 2050 in benefits to 
people and the environment. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
176 
7. Aviation 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Aviation is one of the sectors in which we expect there to be significant remaining 
positive emissions by 2050, given the limited set of options for decarbonisation. 
Remaining residual emissions will need to be offset by greenhouse gas removals 
(see section 11) for the sector to reach Net Zero. 
 
The evidence base on how to achieve GHG savings in aviation in the UK relies on 
internal modelling from DfT, Climate Assembly UK demand scenarios and internal 
CCC analysis of sustainable aviation fuel costs. Further details are provided in the 
Methodology Report. 
 
We present the scenarios for aviation emissions in three parts: 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for aviation 
b) Alternative pathways for aviation emissions  
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for aviation 
 
In the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, the aviation sector returns to close to pre-
pandemic demand levels by 2024. Thereafter, emissions gradually decline over 
time (Figure 3.7.a) to reach 23 MtCO2e/year by 2050, despite modest growth in 
demand. 
 
This gradual reduction in emissions is due to demand management, improvements 
in efficiency and a modest but increasing share of sustainable aviation fuels: 
• 
Demand management. The Balanced Net Zero Pathway does allow for 
some limited growth in aviation demand over the period to 2050, but 
considerably less than a ‘business as usual’ baseline. We allow for a 25% in 
growth by 2050 compared to 2018 levels, whereas the baseline reflects 
unconstrained growth of around 65% over the same period. We assume 
that, unlike in the baseline, this occurs without any net increase in UK airport 
capacity, so that any expansion is balanced by reductions in capacity 
elsewhere in the UK. 
• 
Efficiency improvements. The fuel efficiency per passenger of aviation is 
assumed to improve at 1.4% per annum, compared to 0.7% per annum in 
the baseline. This includes 9% of total aircraft distance in 2050 being flown 
by hybrid electric aircraft. 
• 
Sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) contribute 25% of liquid fuel consumed in 
2050, with just over two-thirds of this coming from biofuels* and the 
remainder from carbon-neutral synthetic jet fuel (produced via direct air 
capture of CO2 combined with low-carbon hydrogen, with 75% of this 
synthetic jet fuel assumed to be made in the UK and the rest imported). 
 
 
 
*   Biofuels are assumed to be produced with CCS on the production plant – overall carbon-negative but assumed to 
have zero direct CO2 emissions in aviation. Removals are accounted for in section 11. 
The Balanced Pathway has 
25% growth in demand by 
2050 compared to 2018 levels, 
but with no net expansion of 
UK airport capacity. 
A quarter of jet fuel by 2050 is 
made from sustainable low-
carbon sources. 
177 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.7.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the aviation  
sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
Demand management plays 
a critical role in ensuring GHG 
emissions continue to 
decrease, particularly while 
efficiency benefits and SAF 
take time to scale up. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
178 
b) Alternative pathways for aviation emissions 
 
Each of our exploratory scenarios for aviation sees emissions fall from 2018 to 2050 
by more than 35% (Figure 3.7.b), though with different contributions from efficiency 
improvements, sustainable fuels and constraints on demand (Table 3.7): 
• 
Headwinds assumes the same 25% growth in demand from 2018 to 2050 as 
in the Balanced Pathway, although with higher demand in the 2030s due to 
a net increase in airport capacity. Improvements in efficiency are as in the 
Balanced Pathway, while biofuels comprise 20% of the fuel mix by 2050. 
Emissions are 25 MtCO2e in 2050, 36% below 2018 levels. 
• 
Widespread Engagement has lower demand, with an overall reduction of 
15% on 2018 levels and therefore around half the 2050 demand as in the 
baseline. This is in line with the Climate Assembly UK’s ‘flying less’ scenario. It 
includes a substantial reduction in business aviation due to widespread 
near-term adoption of videoconferencing. Efficiency improvements are 
slightly faster than those in the Balanced Pathway at 1.6% per annum, while 
the share of biofuels in 2050 is slightly lower at 20%, with a further 5% 
contribution from the biogenic fraction of waste-based fuels.* Emissions in 
2050 are 15 MtCO2e, 62% below 2018 levels. 
• 
Widespread Innovation has a greater contribution from technological 
performance, both in terms of improved efficiency (2.1% per annum) and 
the contribution of sustainable aviation fuels. By 2050, around a quarter of 
fuel use is biofuel, with a further quarter carbon-neutral synthetic jet fuel. 
These technical improvements lead to a lower carbon-intensity and lower 
cost of aviation, although demand in this scenario is considerably higher, 
reaching 50% above 2018 levels by 2050 (in line with the Climate Assembly 
UK’s ‘technological change’ scenario). Emissions in 2050 are 15 MtCO2e, 
63% below 2018 levels. 
• 
In Tailwinds, the reductions in demand under Widespread Engagement are 
combined with the technology improvements in Widespread Innovation. 
Demand in 2050 is 15% below 2018 levels and efficiency improves at 2.1% 
per annum. Very similar volumes of sustainable fuels are used as in 
Widespread Innovation, but when applied to the lower fuel consumption in 
Tailwinds these comprise a higher combined share of 95% of fuel use. 
Emissions in 2050 are 1 MtCO2e, 97% below 2018 levels. 
 
In each case, for the aviation sector to reach Net Zero by 2050, the remaining 
emissions will need to be offset with greenhouse gas removals (see section 11).  
 
In addition to the GHG emissions presented here, aviation also has non-CO2 
warming impacts due to contrails, NOx emissions and other factors. While outside 
of the emissions accounting framework used by UK carbon budgets (see Chapter 
10), we estimate the additional warming from these non-CO2 effects in section 4 of 
Chapter 8. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Waste-based fuels save less CO2 than biofuels, due to approximately half of the waste carbon content being of fossil 
origin. Only the biogenic fraction of wastes save CO2 compared to fossil jet fuel. 
Widespread Innovation 
assumes much higher demand 
growth is possible, due to rapid 
technology development. 
Widespread Engagement 
assumes lower demand in 
2050 than in 2018, due mainly 
to reduced business travel. 
179 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.7.b Emissions pathways for the aviation  
sector 
 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Only direct CO2, CH4 and N2O combustion emissions in aviation are shown. ‘Non-CO2 impacts’ are excluded. 
 
 
Table 3.7 
Summary of key differences in the aviation scenarios 
 
Balanced 
Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Demand growth to 2050 (vs. 
2018) 
+25% 
+25% 
-15% 
+50% 
-15% 
Efficiency improvements 
(%/year) 
1.4% 
1.4% 
1.6% 
2.1% 
2.1% 
Biofuel share in 2050 
17% 
20% 
20% 
26% 
51% 
Bio-waste fuel share in 2050 
- 
- 
5% 
- 
- 
Synthetic jet fuel share in 2050 
8% 
- 
- 
25% 
44% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 has had a dramatic 
impact, and all scenarios 
remain under 2019 emissions 
levels. Tailwinds is able to 
almost completely 
decarbonise by 2050. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
180 
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
In our 2019 Net Zero report, we identified aviation as one of the sectors with cost-
effective GHG savings, given that efficiency gains could offset the added costs of 
sustainable aviation fuels. Our updated Sixth Carbon Budget pathways estimate 
the full costs and savings involved: 
• 
In the Balanced Net Zero Pathway we estimate total added investment 
costs above our baseline of around £390 million/year in 2035 and £570 
million/year in 2050, for efficiency improvements and hybridisation (Figure 
3.7.c). 
• 
However, these added investment costs are offset by operational cost 
savings of around £1,230 million/year in 2035 and £2,750 million/year in 
2050. There are also added operational costs of using sustainable aviation 
fuels, given their additional cost above fossil jet fuel, of £470 million/year in 
2035, and £1,520 million/year in 2050 (Figure 3.7.d). We have not assigned 
any costs or savings to reductions in demand in our scenarios. 
 
Figure 3.7.c Breakdown of aviation sector 
additional investment 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Additional investment in Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared to the baseline, due to higher costs of more 
efficient aircraft. No costs or savings have been assumed for reductions in demand vs. the baseline trajectory. No 
military aviation cost data available. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The capital costs of improved 
aircraft efficiency are more 
than offset by fuel savings. 
Sustainable aviation fuels add 
significant costs. 
 
International aviation 
dominates UK aviation 
emissions and investment. 
 
181 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Reducing GHG emissions from UK domestic and international aviation is 
therefore expected to cost between -£90 and -£40/tCO2e abated in 2035, 
and between -£30 and +£20/tCO2e abated by 2050.* There are increases 
over time due to higher aircraft costs, and the higher share of GHG savings 
from biofuels and more expensive synthetic jet fuel. In earlier years, 
efficiency gains significantly outweigh added fuel costs. 
• 
As an example of costs for passengers, sustainable aviation fuels priced 
with marginal GHG removals might add £35 to a return ticket from London 
to New York in 2050 in the Balanced Pathway, minus £21 of fuel savings 
from improved efficiency.* If full decarbonisation were paid for using GHG 
removals to offset residual emissions, this may add a further £41, giving a 
net added cost of £56. 
• 
The cost of GHG savings in military aviation is based only on the use of 
biofuels and synthetic jet, and falls to around £110/tCO2e abated in 2035, 
staying at around this level to 2050 in the Balanced Pathway. 
 
Figure 3.7.d Breakdown of aviation sector 
additional costs 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Additional operational costs in Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared to the baseline, due to higher costs 
of sustainable aviation fuels and costs savings from improved efficiency. No costs or savings have been assumed 
for reductions in demand vs. the baseline trajectory. No military aviation cost data for efficiency savings available. 
 
 
*    International aviation is typically at the lower end of this cost range, and domestic aviation at the upper end. 
Efficiency costs are -£280 to -£135/tCO2e, and SAF costs are £110/tCO2e on average. 
*   Based on ICAO (2020) Carbon Emissions Calculator current value of 671 kgCO2 per passenger, economy return. In 
2050, 243 kgCO2 is saved via efficiency, 108 kgCO2 directly via sustainable aviation fuels, with 89 kgCO2 saved 
upstream from biogenic CO2 sequestration, leaving a further 230 kgCO2 to be offset via other GHG removals. 
£180/tCO2 is assumed for residual offsetting and marginal SAF costs (based on Direct Air Capture with CCS). 
Paying for a fully zero-carbon 
flight, via the use of GHG 
removal offsets, will be 
affordable by 2050. 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
182
8. Shipping
Introduction and key messages 
In this section, we set out pathways for how UK domestic shipping plus the UK’s 
share of international shipping can be reduced to close to zero by 2050, largely 
through the use of zero-carbon fuels such as ammonia. 
The evidence base on how to decarbonise shipping in the UK relies on UMAS 
modelling for the DfT’s Clean Maritime Plan and internal CCC analysis of zero-
carbon fuel costs. Further details are provided in the Methodology Report. 
We present the scenarios for shipping emissions in three parts: 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for shipping
b) Alternative pathways for shipping emissions
c) Investment requirements and costs
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for shipping
In the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, the shipping sector returns to pre-pandemic 
demand levels in 2022. Thereafter, emissions hold relatively flat to 2030, before 
reducing to close to zero by 2050 (Figure 3.8.a). This reduction in emissions goes 
well beyond the current International Maritime Organisation (IMO) target for a 
reduction of 50% in global shipping emissions by 2050 from 2008 levels. We assume 
that shipping serving the UK will adopt the zero-carbon fuels required to meet the 
global target, but on an accelerated timetable.  
The emissions reductions in our scenarios result from some acceleration in 
efficiency improvements and electrification relative to baseline forecasts, together 
with a wholesale shift to zero-carbon fuels between 2030 and 2050: 
•
Efficiency and electrification. Total fuel use is assumed to increase by an
average of only 0.9% per annum, compared to 1.2% per annum in the
baseline. By 2050, 3 TWh/year of electricity is used in electric propulsion and
shore power, compared to 0.2 TWh/year in the baseline.
•
Zero-carbon fuels comprise the large majority (87%) of the emissions savings
from shipping. In our scenarios, this is assumed to be ammonia, due to the
potential to retrofit ship engines, and its higher energy density compared to
hydrogen and battery electric options. 75% of this ammonia is assumed to
be produced in the UK, using low-carbon hydrogen (see section 5), with the
remainder imported (made abroad using renewable electrolytic
hydrogen). Commercial deployment starts in 2030, with domestic shipping
decarbonising faster than international shipping.
Although it is likely that there would be some reduction in shipping emissions in the 
transition to 2050 due to a reduction in shipping demand associated with importing 
fossil fuels (see section 5), we have not included this effect in our analysis. The 
emissions in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway therefore err on the side of being too 
high. 
Ships will increasingly plug into 
the power grid while at port. 
Zero-carbon fuels start being 
used in shipping at scale from 
2030. 
183
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.8.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the 
shipping sector 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; UMAS (2019) modelling for DfT’s 
Clean Maritime Plan; CCC analysis. 
b) Alternative pathways for shipping emissions
Our assessment of the shipping sector is that there is clear potential to reduce 
emissions to close to zero by 2050 though use of carbon-free fuels, for example 
through adoption of ammonia produced via low-carbon methods. Consistent with 
the emerging evidence (see the accompanying Methodology Report, Chapter 9), 
we assume that the vast majority of existing ship types and sizes can be retrofitted 
to burn ammonia. 
Each of our exploratory scenarios for shipping sees emissions fall to close to zero by 
2050 (Figure 3.8.b), though with different timings for the introduction of zero-carbon 
fuels: 
•
Headwinds has the same emissions and transition to zero-carbon fuels as in
the Balanced Pathway.
•
Widespread Engagement assumes a more back-ended pathway for
uptake of zero-carbon fuels in the 2040s, due to higher assumed ammonia
costs.
•
Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds both assume widespread adoption of
zero-carbon fuels in the period 2030 to 2040, due to the lower costs of fuel
production from low-cost renewable energy.
Shipping can almost 
completely decarbonise by 
the late 2040s, due to the use 
of zero-carbon fuels across 
almost all the UK fleet. 
It is possible to retrofit UK 
shipping and fully roll-out zero-
carbon fuels within 10 years, 
instead of 15-20 years. 
Waiting to deploy zero-carbon 
fuels until 2040 comes with 
higher sector emissions in the 
interim. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
184 
Figure 3.8.b Emissions pathways for the shipping 
sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds follow the same trajectory. Headwinds and Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway follow the same trajectory.  
 
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
In our 2019 Net Zero report, we identified shipping as having relatively expensive 
GHG savings, given the added costs of using low-carbon ammonia, although the 
size of the sector means that total shipping decarbonisation costs are smaller than 
many other sectors.  
 
Our updated Sixth Carbon Budget analysis estimates the full costs involved: 
• 
In the Balanced Pathway we estimate total added investment costs above 
the baseline of around £160 million/year in 2035 and £350 million/year in 
2050, for efficiency, electrification and infrastructure changes required to 
use zero-carbon ammonia (e.g. engine retrofits, port storage). 
• 
The majority of investment in domestic shipping occurs in the 2030s to early 
2040s, in comparison to the majority of investment in international shipping 
being in the 2040s (Figure 3.8.c). 
 
 
 
 
Domestic shipping invests 
earlier than international 
shipping. 
185 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 3.8.c Breakdown of shipping sector for 
additional investment 
 
 
Source: UMAS (2019) modelling for DfT’s Clean Maritime Plan; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Additional investment in Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared to the baseline, due to higher costs of more 
efficient vessels electrification and ammonia infrastructure (ports and engine retrofits). No naval shipping cost data 
available.  
 
• 
Cost savings from the combined impact of efficiency and electrification 
are modest at £70 million/year in 2035 and £130 million/year in 2050. Use of 
zero-carbon ammonia, given its higher cost compared to fossil marine fuels, 
adds £850 million/year in 2035 and £2.9 billion/year in 2050 (Figure 3.8.d). 
• 
Decarbonising UK shipping is expected to cost £130-140/tCO2e abated in 
2035, and £170-190/tCO2e abated by 2050 in the Balanced Pathway. This 
abatement cost increases over time due to the falling cost of the fossil fuel 
counterfactual, and the rising share of GHG savings from ammonia.  
• 
Almost all cost reductions in ammonia are assumed to occur before 2030 
due to cost reductions in feedstock hydrogen, and little change is assumed 
after 2030. These abatement costs apply to domestic and international 
shipping, since we have not estimated the costs or potential for 
decarbonising naval shipping. 
• 
As an example of the impact of decarbonisation, the added cost of zero-
carbon shipping may add £8 to the price of sending one tonne of freight 
from Southampton to New York in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway.* 
 
 
 
*   Based on OOCL Carbon Calculator (2020), based on the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) calculation 
methodology. This gives a value of 39 kgCO2, one-way. 
Decarbonisation costs are 
relatively high in shipping, due 
to ammonia costs. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
186 
Figure 3.8.d Breakdown of shipping sector 
additional operating costs 
 
Source: UMAS (2019) modelling for DfT’s Clean Maritime Plan; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Additional investment in Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared to the baseline, due to higher costs of 
ammonia and cost savings from improved efficiency. No naval shipping cost data available.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficiency savings are modest 
compared to the added fuel 
costs of zero-carbon fuels in 
shipping. 
187 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
9. Waste 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Emissions from waste arise mostly from decomposition of organic matter in landfills, 
wastewater treatment processes and combustion of residual waste in energy-from-
waste plants. Sector emissions can be reduced by 75% by 2050, through greater 
waste prevention, recycling, higher landfill methane capture rates, improvements 
to wastewater treatment and composting facilities, and adding CCS to energy-
from-waste plants. 
 
The evidence base on how to decarbonise the waste sector in the UK is more 
limited than the evidence available for other sectors. Our analysis has relied on 
data in BEIS’s Energy and Emissions Projections pathways, Ricardo’s MELMod landfill 
model, research by WRAP and Water UK, as well as internal analysis starting from 
and accelerating English and Devolved Administration announced policies. Further 
details are given in the Methodology Report. 
 
This section is split into three sub-sections:  
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for waste 
b) Alternative pathways for waste emissions 
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for waste 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway sees waste sector emissions fall 75% from today’s 
levels to reach 7.8 MtCO2e/year by 2050. Around 80% of the abatement to 2035 is 
from waste prevention, increased recycling and banning biodegradable waste 
from landfill. By 2050, 30% of sector abatement comes from retrofitting CCS to the 
UK’s fleet of energy-from-waste facilities. The additional 10% of emissions reductions 
comes from capturing more methane at landfills, reducing wastewater treatment 
emissions and improving composting (Figure 3.9.a). 
• 
Waste prevention, recycling and landfill bans. Edible food waste is reduced 
by just over 50% by 2030 (meeting UN SDG Target 12.3) and just over 60% by 
2050, compared to 2007 levels. Compared to a steadily increasing 
baseline, a third of non-food waste arisings are prevented by 2037 via 
product redesign, light-weighting, extended lifetimes and asset sharing. 
Currently around 45% of all household waste is recycled in the UK, along 
with 55% of commercial & industrial waste. UK-wide recycling rates increase 
to a blended 70% by 2030 (with Wales and Scotland achieving this by 
2025). Anaerobic digestion and composting play an important part in 
recycling food and garden wastes, helping enable a ban on all 
biodegradable waste going to landfill by 2025. Landfill methane emissions 
fall to 1.1 MtCO2e/year by 2050. 
• 
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) at energy-from-waste (EfW) plants. 
Further growth in fossil emissions from UK energy-from-waste facilities is 
avoided due to prevention and recycling efforts, with EfW emissions staying 
relatively flat at 5-6 MtCO2e/year until 2040.  
 
Generating less waste, 
recycling more and not 
sending waste that can decay 
to landfill are the key pillars to 
reducing landfill emissions. 
Energy-from-waste emissions 
can be constrained, before all 
plants fit CCS in the 2040s. 
Wastewater emissions are hard 
to abate. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
188 
CCS is then fitted to 100% of plants starting in 2040 (when our scenario also 
bans all waste going to landfill, leading to a temporary uptick in emissions 
due to higher residual waste volumes). With the use of CCS, EfW emissions 
fall to 0.4 MtCO2e/year by 2050. 
• 
Wastewater treatment improvements. Process methane and nitrous oxide 
emissions from wastewater treatment are hard to mitigate. A combination 
of enhanced monitoring, operational measures and continued roll-out of 
advanced anaerobic digestion leads to a 21% improvement by 2030. 
Wastewater becomes the majority source of Waste sector emissions by 
2050 (at 4.2 MtCO2e/year).* 
• 
Landfill methane capture. Even with banning key biodegradable waste 
streams from entering landfill, there will still be legacy methane emissions 
given the long decay time. More of this methane can be captured (for use 
in power or the gas grid), and capture rates increase from an estimated 
68% in 2018 to 80% by 2050. 
• 
Composting improvements. Use of pumped air to improve compost 
aeration and product quality at a third of sites by 2030, leading to a 23% 
improvement in methane and nitrous oxide emissions. Use of composting 
increases over time, so emissions return to 1.3 MtCO2e/year by 2050. 
 
Figure 3.9.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the waste  
sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
* Emissions from the spreading of sewage sludge or digestate to land are counted in the Land Use sector. 
189 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) Alternative pathways for waste emissions 
Each of our exploratory scenarios for the waste sector see emissions fall more than 
70% from 2018 to 2050, with a range of residual emissions of 6.0-9.5 MtCO2e/year in 
2050 (Figure 3.9.b).  
 
Figure 3.9.b Emissions pathways for the waste 
sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
Across the scenarios, we explore different contexts by varying the key timings, 
deployment of technologies and costs, and by exploring the impact of different 
levels of behaviour change (Table 3.9): 
• 
Headwinds. Recycling rates follow the Balanced Pathway, although later 
landfill ban dates are implemented. There are no further reductions in food 
waste after 2030, and reductions in non-food waste are smaller, reflecting 
lower levels of behaviour change. Landfill methane capture rates remain 
unchanged from today. 
• 
Widespread Engagement. Households and businesses are prepared to 
recycle significantly more than they do today, with further increases in 
recycling after 2030, along with further reductions in food waste. All waste is 
banned from landfill at an earlier date of 2035, and landfill methane 
capture rates remain unchanged from today. Residual waste is increasingly 
allocated to jet fuel production instead of EfW incineration. 
 
Further improvements in 
recycling rates are possible, 
and more food waste can be 
avoided. 
Emissions fell from 1997-2015 
with less waste sent to landfill. 
The waste sector faces a 
challenge to get onto a low-
carbon path after several 
years of limited progress. 
Technology solutions can be 
implemented to further reduce 
landfill and wastewater 
emissions. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
190 
• 
Widespread Innovation achieves slightly smaller reductions in non-food 
waste than the Balanced Pathway, although it also targets reductions in 
inedible food waste (e.g. through lab-grown meat). Landfill methane 
capture and oxidation technologies are deployed during the 2020s, and 
wastewater treatment facilities install more novel technologies after 2030 to 
further reduce their emissions. 
• 
Tailwinds combines the highest waste prevention and recycling rates, the 
earliest landfill ban dates, and the highest technical improvements at 
landfill, compost and wastewater treatment sites. CCS also starts being 
installed on EfW plants much earlier, from the late 2020s. The result is 
emissions fall further and much faster than in the other scenarios. 
 
Table 3.9 
Summary of key differences in the waste sector scenarios 
 
Balanced 
Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
Behaviour 
change 
and 
demand 
reduction 
51% fall in edible 
food waste by 
2030 and 61% by 
2050* 
 
 
 
33% reduction in 
all waste by 
2037** 
68% recycling by 
2030 
51% fall in edible 
food waste by 
2030 
 
 
 
 
13% reduction in 
all waste by 
2037, 68% 
recycling by 2030 
51% fall in edible 
food waste by 
2030 and 71% by 
2050 
 
 
 
33% reduction in 
all waste by 2037 
68% recycling by 
2030 and 79% by 
2050 
51% fall in edible 
food waste by 
2030 and 61% by 
2050 (+50% fall in 
inedible food 
waste by 2050) 
 
28% reduction in 
all waste by 2037 
68% recycling by 
2030 
51% fall in edible 
food waste by 
2030 and 71% by 
2050 (+50% fall in 
inedible food 
waste by 2050) 
 
33% reduction in 
all waste by 2037 
68% recycling by 
2030 and 79% by 
2050 
 
Landfill 
2025 ban on 
biodegradable 
wastes, 2040 full 
ban  
 
80% CH4 capture 
& 10% oxidation 
by 2050 
2030 ban on 
biodegradable 
wastes, 2050 full 
ban 
 
68% CH4 capture 
& 10% oxidation 
by 2050 
2025 ban on 
biodegradable 
wastes, 2035 full 
ban 
 
68% CH4 capture 
& 10% oxidation 
by 2050 
2025 ban on 
biodegradable 
wastes, 2040 full 
ban 
 
80% CH4 capture 
by 2030, 30% 
oxidation by 2050 
2025 ban on 
biodegradable 
wastes, 2035 full 
ban  
 
80% CH4 capture 
by 2030, 30% 
oxidation by 2050 
 
Energy-
from-waste 
CCS is fitted to 
100% of EfW 
plants by 2050, 
starting from 
early 2040s 
CCS is fitted to 
100% of EfW 
plants by 2050, 
starting from late 
2030s 
 
CCS is fitted to 
100% of EfW 
plants by 2050, 
starting from 
early 2040s 
CCS is fitted to 
100% of EfW 
plants by 2050, 
starting from 
early 2040s 
CCS is fitted to 
100% of EfW 
plants by 2050, 
starting from late 
2020s 
Waste-
water 
treatment 
Improves 21% by 
2030 
Improves 21% by 
2030 
Improves 21% by 
2030 
Improves 21% by 
2030, 50% by 
2050 
Improves 21% by 
2030, 50% by 
2050 
Compost-
ing 
Improves 23% by 
2030 
Improves 23% by 
2030 
Improves 23% by 
2030 
Improves 23% by 
2030 
Improves 23% by 
2030 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Measured from 2007 base year for household edible food waste, and 2011 for business edible food waste. 
**   Measured in-year from a baseline of increasing household and commercial & industry waste arisings 
CCS could be installed on 
energy-from-waste plants 
starting from the 2020s, 
significantly reducing sector 
emissions. 
191 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
In our 2019 Net Zero report, we identified waste as a sector with potentially low cost 
GHG savings, based on recycling and banning biodegradable waste from landfill. 
Our sector categorisation and analysis has expanded to now include energy-from-
waste plants, as well as abatement in the composting and wastewater sub-sectors. 
While some of these sub-sectors have much higher costs of abatement, our new 
estimates still suggest that reducing waste sector emissions is achievable as part of 
a cost-effective scenario towards the Sixth Carbon Budget and the UK’s Net Zero 
objectives: 
• 
In the Balanced Pathway, we estimate total added investment costs above 
the baseline of around £175 million/year in 2035 and £2,100 million/year in 
2050 (Figure 3.9.c).  
• 
However, investment starts early in the 2020s, as robust action is taken on 
recycling (new vehicles, bins and downstream infrastructure) costing £100-
800 million/year in order to ban biodegradable waste from landfill, as well 
as £430 million/year for rolling out advanced anaerobic digestion at 
municipal and industrial wastewater sites.  
 
Figure 3.9.c Breakdown of waste sector  
additional investment 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Additional investment in Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared to the baseline, due to costs of new 
equipment for landfill methane capture, compost forced aeration, (municipal and industrial) waste water 
advanced AD, and new waste collection and recycling infrastructure. 
 
 
 
Front-loaded investment in the 
2020s will be required to realise 
a biodegradable waste landfill 
ban by 2025. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
192 
• 
By the 2030s, there is no assumed further increase in recycling rates or 
wastewater improvements, so waste collection vehicle fleet turnover is the 
main cost. From 2040, the majority of added investment is retrofitting CCS to 
all the UK’s remaining EfW plants, along with wastewater equipment 
replacement. 
• 
We estimate total added operating costs above the baseline of 
around £50 million/year in 2035 and £1.3 billion/year in 2050 (Figure 3.9.d). 
However, during the 2020s, reduced total waste arisings, fewer collections 
of residual/black bin-bag waste from households and businesses, and 
improved quality and consistency of collected recyclable materials leads 
to cost savings* that can outweigh the added transition costs. Larger 
businesses are likely to increase recycling rates earlier and at lower cost, 
whereas smaller businesses face higher costs and are likely to be slower, 
leading to some marginal net long-term costs from 2030. From 2040, the 
installation of CCS on EfW plants leads to increased energy and labour 
costs, dominating waste sector added operating costs. 
 
 
Figure 3.9.d Breakdown of waste sector  
additional operating costs 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Additional operating costs in Balanced Net Zero Pathway compared to the baseline, due to costs of 
operating new equipment for CCS at EfW plants, landfill methane capture, composting forced aeration, and new 
waste collection and recycling infrastructure. No additional operating costs are assumed for waste water 
treatment. 
 
 
 
*   This analysis excludes the cost savings from local authorities and waste management companies paying less landfill 
tax (currently £650 million/year is paid). 
Cost savings are possible via 
reduced volumes of residual 
waste to collect and 
collection of higher quality 
recyclable materials. CCS will 
add significant costs to EfW 
plants. 
193 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
For comparison, baseline costs (investment plus operations combined) are 
estimated at approximately £8.6 billion/year for solid waste handling across 
the UK, so the added costs of recycling and banning biodegradable waste 
from landfill are estimated at under 10%. The added investment in 
municipal wastewater treatment (excluding industrial wastewater) would 
add £4 a year to each UK household water bill during the 2020s. 
• 
Reducing emissions from UK waste comes at an average cost of around 
£70/tCO2e, although there is significant variation between sub-sectors, with 
wastewater abatement having very high costs compared to low cost 
methane capture and composting improvements. 
• 
Reducing waste emissions will also produce benefits with improved air, soil 
and water quality, and recreational benefits from faster return of landfill 
sites to other uses. Lower landfill methane generation results in less methane 
captured for energy generation, although this decline is compensated for 
via increased use of anaerobic digestion for food wastes, sewage sludge 
and animal manures. 
 
 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
194 
10. F-gases 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Fluorinated gases (F-gas) are man-made gases that can stay in the atmosphere for 
centuries. Their emissions account for around 3% of total UK GHG emissions. Major 
emissions sources are refrigerants, aerosols, solvents, insulating gases, or blowing 
agents for foams and medical equipment. They can also arise as fugitive emissions 
from other manufacturing processes. Most of the emissions reduction to 2050 will 
be driven via F-Gas regulations, with further abatement possible through a faster 
shift to lower Global Warming Potential (GWP) F-gases, behavioural shifts to Dry 
Powder Inhalers (DPI) and reduced leakage.  
 
The evidence base on how to decarbonise F-gases builds on our 2019 Net Zero 
report, and in particular a 2019 report commissioned by the CCC from Ricardo and 
Gluckman Consulting on decarbonising the F-gases sector.  
 
This section is split into three sub-sections:  
a) The Balanced Net Zero pathway for F-gases  
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, benefits and co-impacts on society 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero pathway for F-gases 
 
F-gas emission levels were 15 MtCO2e in 2018, accounting for 3% of total UK GHG 
emissions (Figure 3.10). Emissions were 14% below 1990 levels and 40% below the 
peak in 1997.  
 
Approximately 95% of F-gas emissions are hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) which are 
emitted from the production, use and manufacture of refrigeration and air-
conditioning equipment; aerosols; foams; metered-dose inhalers; and fire 
equipment. Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and NF3 comprise 
the remaining percentage and are released in various industrial processes and 
from electrical insulation. 
 
F-gases are emitted in small volumes but have a high global warming potentials 
(GWPs)* and can be several thousand times more warming than CO2 (GWP = 1): 
• 
HFCs have GWPs ranging from approximately 100 to over 10,000 
• 
SF6 has a GWP of 26,087 
• 
PFCs have GWPs of approximately 7,000 to approximately 19,000 
• 
NF3 has a GWP of 16,100. These emissions are very low (less than 0.001 
MtCO2e) and do not count towards the UK’s climate targets. 
 
Our pathways start from an existing policy baseline where the UK maintains 
comparable legislation to the EU F-Gas Regulation that was introduced in 2014.  
 
 
*   Values given are AR5 GWPs with carbon-cycle feedbacks. 
There is strong existing 
regulation for the F-gases 
sector. 
The majority of F-gases 
emissions come from HFCs 
used in refrigeration and air-
conditioning.  
195 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The regulation sets a cap on the amount of HFCs that producers and importers are 
allowed to place on the EU market. The cap will be cut every three years until 
reaching a 79% cut from 2015 levels by 2030. The Government has legislated 
provisions for equivalent regulation into UK law to come into force from 2021, 
meaning that the UK’s departure from the EU should not impact this baseline 
assumption. 
 
Reducing emissions further requires a range of behavioural and technical 
measures, predominantly: 
 
• 
Further replacement of current F-gases with lower GWP F-gases. The 
deployment of lower GWP alternatives to current F-gases in heat pump 
systems and refrigerators has the potential to reduce emissions from the 
sector further. Specifically, the deployment of low-GWP alternatives to 
R448A and R449A F-gases and accelerated transition away from R-404A 
systems, and retrofitting of R-134a car air-conditioning systems.* A host of 
low-GWP F-gases or F-gases alternatives are already available on the 
market, and innovation will likely bring more forward.  
• 
More widespread move to dry power inhalers (DPIs). Metered dose inhalers 
(MDIs) are a significant source of F-gases emissions. Our Balanced Pathway 
assumes widespread move from MDIs to DPIs – which are already in 
common use in Europe – for some drugs, with lower-GWP MDIs developed 
for other drugs such as salbutamol.  
• 
Reduced leakage from heat pump and refrigerators through improved 
equipment design and installer training. 
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway involves a widespread rollout of heat pumps from 
now until 2050 (see section 2). Heat pumps emit some F-gases during their product 
lifetimes as a result of refrigerant leakage and disposal. If existing standards are 
maintained, the greenhouse gas savings of a switch to heat pumps are orders of 
magnitude higher than the additional F-gas emissions (see Box 11.2 of the 
Methodology Report) and we account for those additional emissions in our 
analysis. 
 
 b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
 
All F-gases scenarios aim to reduce emissions as far as possible by 2050, resulting in 
a range of residual emissions of 1.5-2.5 MtCO2e/year, and emissions of 2.5-4.0 
MtCO2e/year over the Sixth Carbon Budget period (Figure 3.10). Across the 
scenarios we vary the assumptions relating to behavioural change and 
technological innovation: 
• 
Headwinds. Decreased leakage from heat pumps and refrigerants, greater 
rollout of low-GWP alternatives to F-gases, retrofitting of some car air-
conditioning systems and partial replacement of MDI inhalers with DPI 
inhalers (beclomethasone dipropionate and compound drug inhalers). 
• 
Widespread Engagement. All the measures from Headwinds are included, 
alongside greater willingness to shift to DPI inhalers (specifically switching 
from salbutamol MDIs to DPIs). 
 
 
 
 
*   R448A and R449A F-gases are high-GWP F-gases used as refrigerants. R-134a is a high-GWP F-gas use in car air-
conditioning systems that was banned from being used in new cars from January 2017.  
Further abatement in the F-
gases sector is possible 
through replacement of 
current F-gases with lower 
GWP alternatives, more 
widespread moves to dry 
powder inhalers and reduced 
leakage from heat pumps and 
refrigerators.   
Further abatement is possible if 
lower GWP F-gas alternatives 
can be developed and 
deployed, and there is greater 
uptake of DPI inhalers. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
196 
• 
Widespread Innovation. All the measures from Headwinds are included. 
Further shift away from HFCs for which low-carbon alternatives are currently 
at an earlier stage of deployment. Measures outlined as technically 
feasible but not costed in our Net Zero report are included in this scenario. 
• 
Tailwinds. Tailwinds includes the measures from Headwinds, Widespread 
Engagement and Widespread Innovation. 
 
Figure 3.10.a Emissions pathways for the F-gases 
sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Headwinds and Widespread Engagement scenario are obscured by Balanced Net Zero Pathway curve. Full 
date can be found in the exhibits CCC’s databook. 
 
 
 
c) Impacts of the scenarios: costs, benefits and co-impacts on 
society 
 
Our estimates suggest that reducing emissions from the UK’s F-gases sector is 
achievable as part of a cost-effective scenario towards the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
In the Balanced pathway we estimate costs of around £7 million per year in 2035, 
and net savings of around £1 million per year by 2050. 
 
The majority of the 2035 costs are due to upfront investment in refrigeration and 
heating systems that have greater efficiency and lower GWP F-gases that are also 
often cheaper. By 2050, the efficiency savings more than offset this 
additional capital investment.  
 
Abating emissions from F-gases 
should be cost saving by 2050. 
197 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
11. Greenhouse gas removals 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Engineered greenhouse gas removals, such as Bioenergy with carbon capture and 
storage (BECCS), Direct Air Capture of CO2 with storage (DACCS) and increased 
use of Wood in Construction will be required to permanently remove carbon from 
the atmosphere, in order to offset remaining residual emissions in the UK and 
achieve Net Zero by 2050. As set out in Chapter 1, our scenarios aim to reduce 
emissions where decarbonisation solutions exist, and minimise the need for 
removals. 
 
The evidence base used for our analysis on GHG removals is largely that compiled 
for the Committee’s 2019 Net Zero report, but is supplemented by new data on 
costs and efficiencies for DACCS from The Royal Society and International Energy 
Agency (IEA), and updated BECCS data from the Energy System Catapult’s ESME 
model and bespoke analysis for industrial and energy-from-waste plants.  
 
Evidence on the potential supply of sustainable low-carbon bioenergy is drawn 
from our detailed work in the 2018 Bioenergy in a low-carbon economy report, as 
detailed in the accompanying Methodology report, Chapter 6. 
 
This section is split into three sub-sections:  
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for GHG Removals 
b) Alternative routes to delivering abatement in the mid-2030s 
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
a) The Balanced Net Zero Pathway for GHG removals 
 
In the Balanced Net Zero Pathway we estimate that engineered emissions 
removals of 58 MtCO2/year are required in 2050 (Figure 3.11.a), in addition to 
nature-based sinks of 39 MtCO2/year from UK land (covered in section 6). 
 
Engineered greenhouse gas removals are a group of technologies (also known as 
‘GGRs’ or ‘negative emissions technologies’) that can remove carbon from the 
atmosphere.* BECCS and DACCS are not currently operating at scale in the UK, 
although there are demonstration plants operating globally and larger 
commercial projects proposed. Biogenic CO2 is already captured at commercial 
scale from bioethanol and anaerobic digestion plants, although it is typically used 
(e.g. for drinks manufacture and horticulture) rather than sequestered.  
 
In constructing the Balanced Pathway, we have taken into account the time 
needed to scale-up BECCS and its supply chains starting in the late 2020s, the 
need to demonstrate DACCS in the 2020s for scale-up late in the 2030s, and the 
new-build market potential for wood in construction.  
 
 
 
*   The use of engineered removals raises concerns around sustainability, particularly around the large-scale use of 
bioenergy, and the potential moral hazard of reduced mitigation efforts. For discussion of these issues, see CCC 
(2019) Net Zero Technical Report (Chapter 10), and CCC (2018) Bioenergy in a low-carbon economy. 
Engineered GHG removal are 
not yet available at scale, but 
progress is being made 
globally. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
198 
Figure 3.11.a Sources of abatement in the  
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the GHG  
removals sector 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis. M&C = 
Manufacturing and Construction. 
 
Both BECCS and DACCS routes rely on the development of UK CCS infrastructure, 
and the provision of low-cost feedstocks (bioenergy supply chains for BECCS or 
low-carbon hydrogen & power for DACCS):  
• 
Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) involves the use of 
sustainable biomass in generating power, heat or fuels, where biogenic 
CO2 generated in the process is captured and sent to long-term geological 
storage. The same process can also be applied to biogenic waste, biogas 
upgrading and some biofuels plants. Our Balanced Pathway has BECCS 
facilities removing 22 MtCO2/year from the atmosphere by 2035, and 53 
MtCO2/year by 2050,** across a mix of biomass power, waste-to-energy, 
industrial heat, biohydrogen, biojet and other biofuel & biomethane 
facilities. 
• 
Direct Air Capture of CO2 with storage (DACCS) involves the separation of 
CO2 from ambient air using chemical reagents and process heat, which we 
assume comes from low-carbon hydrogen. The captured CO2 is then sent 
to long-term geological storage. In our Balanced Pathway, DACCS starts to 
scale up from 2040 to reach 5 MtCO2/year by 2050. 
 
 
**   For context, at least 50 MtCO2/year of biogenic CO2 currently goes uncaptured in energy applications in the UK. 
The Balanced Pathway has a 
significant amount (22 
MtCO2/yr) of BECCS by 2035, 
growing to 53 MtCO2/yr by 
2050. 
The Balanced Pathway also 
has 5 MtCO2/yr of DACCS by 
2050. 
BECCS dominates overall 
abatement, with power 
important in the 2030s, 
followed by increasing levels 
of biohydrogen and biojet. 
199 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Wood in construction: Harvested wood can be used as a construction 
material, creating an additional multi-decade/century store of carbon in 
the built environment. Currently timber-framed houses and engineered 
wood systems make up around 15-28% of total construction materials in 
new homes. In our scenarios this increases to 40% by 2050, removing 0.25 
MtCO2/year by 2035 and 0.44 MtCO2/year by 2050 on top of the wood 
product GHG savings already accounted for in the land-use sector. 
• 
Other removals technologies such as biochar, carbon-negative cement 
and enhanced weathering are also able to remove carbon from the 
atmosphere. However, we consider these to be more speculative options, 
and so these have not been included in our scenarios. Research and 
development should continue into these options, to allow them to be 
options in the future. 
 
Our scenarios for bioenergy use assume that harvested sustainable biomass and 
biogenic waste is used where it can best help to minimise overall GHG emissions. 
This is essential, as there will be finite supplies of bioenergy available to the UK that 
is truly low-carbon and does not compromise other aspects of sustainability (e.g. 
food production, water supplies and biodiversity). The size of this resource was 
assessed in detail as part of our 2018 report Biomass in a low-carbon economy. 
 
b) Alternative pathways for GHG removals 
 
The level of engineered GHG removals in our pathways is dictated by the amount 
of remaining emissions needed to be offset, in addition to nature-based sinks, to 
reach Net Zero, and the pace of the transition to Net Zero, including the need to 
demonstrate engineered removals at scale.  
 
In 2050, the range of GHG removals in our scenarios is 45-112 MtCO2/year (Figure 
3.11.b). Reaching this level of ambition by 2050 requires a cumulative 73-157 
MtCO2 of removals over the Sixth Carbon Budget period, in addition to nature-
based sinks in the scenarios. Across the scenarios we explore different contexts by 
varying the key timings, costs and performance assumptions, resulting in different 
deployment outcomes (Table 3.11): 
• 
Headwinds has higher residual emissions (e.g. in aviation and agriculture) 
than in the Balanced Pathway, requiring additional removals to reach Net 
Zero. As rates of tree planting and peatland restoration are also lower in this 
scenario, this scenario requires 87 MtCO2/year of engineered removals by 
2050. Higher levels of biomass imports are used to generate BECCS power 
and hydrogen, and more CCS at energy-from-waste plants is required.  
• 
Widespread Engagement has higher levels of diet change and waste 
reductions, more tree planting and less flying, leading to reduced residual 
emissions and higher natural removals than Headwinds. This means that 
lower levels of engineered removals are required in 2050 (45 MtCO2/year). 
Energy produced from BECCS is largely used in power and biojet. 
• 
Widespread Innovation has more ways to reduce emissions at reasonable 
cost, including using synthetic fuels in aviation based on CO2 from direct air 
capture. Both BECCS and DACCS play roles, with the latter starting in the 
mid-2030s and contributing 15 MtCO2/year out of total engineered 
removals of 63 MtCO2/year in 2050 (by when emissions are below Net Zero). 
Energy produced from BECCS is mostly used in power, hydrogen and biojet. 
• 
Tailwinds combines the lowest-carbon actions resulting from increased 
behaviour change and technological improvement to reduce emissions 
further and faster than the other scenarios.  
The potential for Wood in 
Construction remains limited. 
Our scenarios have a range of 
45-112 MtCO2/yr of GHG 
removals by 2050. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
200 
In this scenario, DACCS scales up as in Widespread Innovation, and 
biomass imports increase as in Headwinds, which leads to total engineered 
removals scaling up more quickly to reach 112 MtCO2/year by 2050 (with 
total emissions below Net Zero). Energy produced from BECCS is mostly 
used in power, hydrogen and biojet. 
 
Figure 3.11.b Emissions pathways for the removals 
sector 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
Table 3.11 
Summary of key differences in the GHG removal sector scenarios (MtCO2/year in 2050) 
 
Balanced 
Pathway 
Headwinds 
Widespread 
Engagement 
Widespread 
Innovation 
Tailwinds 
BECCS power 
19 
39 
30 
16 
39 
BECCS energy-from-waste 
7 
10 
1 
5 
7 
BECCS M&C 
3 
4 
3 
3 
3 
BECCS hydrogen 
14 
23 
0 
12 
36 
BECCS biofuels 
8 
10 
9 
11 
11 
BECCS biomethane 
0.6 
0.6 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
DACCS 
5 
0 
0 
15 
15 
Wood in construction 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
 
 
 
Our scenarios all have GHG 
removals starting from the late 
2020s, although the expansion 
after this varies considerably. 
The Balanced Pathway is 
relatively conservative 
compared to other scenarios. 
201 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
c) Investment requirements and costs 
 
In our 2019 Net Zero report, our Further Ambition scenario only identified a 96% 
reduction in UK GHG emissions by 2050 from 1990 levels, with the remaining 4% 
needing to be filled with more speculative options. In our cost analysis for 
achieving Net Zero, we assumed that this 4% gap could be met by removals at a 
high cost of £300/tCO2. Together with high costs of imported biomass for BECCS 
and early-stage estimates for DACCS, these led to high costs for the Removals 
sector in our Net Zero report. 
 
BECCS plants, which make up the majority of engineered removals in all of our 
scenarios, also produce significant volumes of carbon-negative energy, such as 
electricity, hydrogen, jet fuel, methane and industrial heat. The costs allocated to 
the Removals sector are the direct costs of using DACCS, along with the additional 
cost of using carbon-negative BECCS instead of the counterfactual method of 
producing this energy assumed by each end-use sector.* There are no additional 
costs assumed for using wood in construction beyond those already counted in 
the Land Use and Manufacturing & Construction sectors. 
 
Our estimates for the Balanced Pathway suggest that: 
• 
Scaling up engineered GHG removals is likely to lead to added costs of 
£2.3 billion/year in 2035 and £5.7 billion/year by 2050. DACCS does not 
contribute in 2035 but will make up around 15% of removals costs in 2050.  
• 
The average cost of removals in our scenarios is around £100/tCO2 during 
the 2030s and 2040s, although there is a wide variation in costs between 
sectors. For example, using domestic biomass in retrofitted BECCS power 
plants might cost £70/tCO2 in the mid-2030s, compared to £150/tCO2 for 
imported biomass in a newbuild BECCS power plant, £110/tCO2 for BECCS 
hydrogen production using imports, or £100-275/tCO2 for BECCS industrial 
heat using domestic biomass. BECCS costs across the sectors generally fall 
to £40-190/tCO2 by 2050, although routes using biogenic waste may be 
cheaper.  
• 
Early-stage DACCS plants are estimated to cost as much as £400/tCO2 
during the 2020s, before reducing towards £180/tCO2 by 2050 as the 
technology develops and is scaled up globally. 
 
The capital investment and operating costs for BECCS are included within the 
sectors in which the BECCS plant sits. The analysis of capital investment and 
operating costs in Figure 3.11.c therefore only considers DACCS.  
 
DACCS investment costs peak at £420 million/year in 2040, and then fall as 
subsequent plants get cheaper. DACCS operating costs ramp-up to £590 
million/year by 2050, with most of this cost being the low-carbon hydrogen used as 
process heating fuel. 
 
 
 
 
 
*   For example, the added costs of BECCS power are calculated using the UK grid average intensity and costs (without 
BECCS) from our scenarios, i.e. low cost and very low emissions power by 2050. A similar approach is used for BECCS 
hydrogen, comparing against a blend of renewable electrolysis, gas CCS and imported renewable hydrogen. The 
added costs of BECCS energy-from-waste and BECCS M&C are the installation and operation of CCS on existing 
EfW and Manufacturing facilities. The added costs of BECCS biofuels and BECCS biomethane are calculated using 
the emissions and costs of the relevant fossil jet, diesel, LPG or natural gas comparators. 
Abatement costs vary by end-
use application, site size, 
retrofit vs. newbuild, and the 
cost of biomass. 
DACCS costs will likely fall 
significantly, but cost of the 
hydrogen heating fuel input 
will be key to determining if 
costs can fall below 
£180/tCO2. 
Chapter 3: Sector pathways to Net Zero 
202 
Figure 3.11.c DACCS investment and operating 
costs 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Only DACCS investment and operating costs are quantified within GHG removals sector, as BECCS capex 
and opex are fully considered as part of the other CCC sectors, and no additional costs are assumed for wood in 
construction beyond those already in land use and manufacturing and construction. An indicative UK 
demonstration project starting in the late 2020s is shown. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
203 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1 Element Energy for the CCC (2020), Analysis to provide costs, efficiencies and roll-out trajectories 
for zero-emission HGVs, buses and coaches. 
2 Department for Transport (2019) Road traffic estimates: Great Britain 2019. 
3 Centre for Sustainable Road Freight for the CCC (2015) An assessment of the potential for 
demand-side fuel savings in the Heavy Goods Vehicle (HGV) sector. 
4 For further discussion see The Carbon Trust and Rawlings Support Services for BEIS (2016) Evidence 
Gathering – Low Carbon Heating Technologies and Delta EE for BEIS (2018) Technical feasibility 
of electric heating in rural off-gas grid dwellings. 
5 Government response to BEIS Select Committee’s recommendations. 
6 Nicol S. et al. (2015), The cost of poor housing to the NHS. 
7 Gersen, S. Darmeveil, H. Van Essen, M. Martinus, G.H. and Teerlingc, O.J (2020) Domestic 
hydrogen boilers in practice: enabling the use of hydrogen in the built environment. These 
findings are supported by testing currently being undertaken by Worcester Bosch. 
8 Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat 
decarbonisation to inform the sixth carbon budget 
9 UCL (2020) Analysis work to refine fabric energy efficiency assumptions for use in developing the 
sixth carbon budget; Currie & Brown (2019) The costs and benefits of tighter standards for new 
buildings; Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat 
decarbonisation to inform the sixth carbon budget. 
10 Jacobs (2020) Strategy for Long-Term Energy Storage in the UK 
11 Ofgem https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/electricity/transmission-networks/electricity-interconnectors  
12 Air Quality Expert Group (2020) Impacts of Net Zero pathways on future air quality in the UK 
13 Policy Exchange (2020) The Future of the North Sea 
14 CCC (2018) Hydrogen in a low-carbon economy 
1515 CCC (2020) Land Use – Policies for a Net Zero UK; CCC (2019) Net Zero – Technical Report 
16 Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (2020) Updated quantification of the impact of future land 
use scenarios to 2050 and beyond. 
17 Scottish Rural College (2020) Non-CO2 abatement in the UK agricultural sector by 2035 and 
2050. 
18 Climate Assembly UK (2020) The path to net zero. 
19 ADAS (2016) Refining estimates of land for bioenergy. 
20 Vivid (2020) Economic impacts of Net Zero land use scenarios. 
 
 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
204 
Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
 
 
1. Opportunities to reduce emissions 
208 
2. Pathways for Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish emissions 
216 
3. Implications for targets 
228 
4. Costs and benefits in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland 
231 
5. Recommendations for policy 
233 
 
 
 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
206 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have an integral role to play in delivering the 
UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget on the path to Net Zero. Combined, they produced 23% 
of UK emissions in 2018, while accounting for 16% of the UK’s population, 13% of 
economic activity and nearly half of the UK’s land area (46%) (Table 4.1). 
 
They have fully or partially devolved powers (Table 4.5) in a number of areas 
relevant to emissions reduction. Key areas of devolved responsibilities include 
demand-side transport measures, energy efficiency and heat in off-gas properties, 
agriculture, land use and waste, and most energy policy in Northern Ireland. 
 
The devolved administrations can also ensure that UK policy in reserved areas (e.g. 
a regulatory phase-out of petrol and diesel car sales) is delivered effectively 
through the provision of additional incentives, public engagement, and supporting 
policies such as planning. The UK cannot achieve its climate targets without strong 
policy action across Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
 
This chapter sets out what the different pathways for UK Net Zero mean for 
emissions in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, the costs of action, and high-
level policy recommendations for the devolved administrations. A full discussion of 
costs and their distribution can be found in Chapter 5 and 6, and a detailed set of 
policy recommendations is laid out in the Policy Report that accompanies this 
report.  
 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are at different stages of developing their 
own climate legislation, targets and policy: 
• 
Scotland has already legislated a Net Zero target for 2045 and a set of 
legally binding targets between 2020 and 2045. The Scottish Government is 
now preparing an update to the Climate Change Plan containing policies 
and proposals to meet those targets that will be published shortly after this 
report.  
• 
The Welsh Government already has a climate legislation framework and 
currently has a legal target to reduce emissions by 80% in 2050 compared 
to 1990 levels. The Welsh Government is in the process of defining and 
legislating new targets that are consistent with UK Net Zero by 2050. In 2019, 
Wales committed to setting a 95% reduction target in 2050, with an 
ambition to set a Net Zero target if possible.1 
• 
The Northern Ireland Executive is planning to introduce new climate 
change legislation as part of the New Decade, New Approach power-
sharing agreement.2 
 
We will shortly publish two joint reports reflecting on progress towards meeting 
Wales’ existing climate targets and giving new recommendations on the level of 
the Wales’ third carbon budget (2026-2030) and other emissions reduction targets 
including the 2050 target. 
 
In parallel with this advice, the Committee has written to the Scottish Government 
and the Northern Ireland Executive to give further advice on meeting and setting 
climate targets. 
 
 
 
 
 
Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland have an integral role to 
play in delivering the UK’s 
emissions targets. 
While some important policy 
levers are held in Westminster, 
powers are fully or partially 
devolved in most key areas. 
We are providing separate 
advice to each of Wales, 
Scotland and Northern Ireland 
alongside the UK advice. 
207 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Our key messages in this chapter are: 
• 
The credibility of the Sixth Carbon Budget rests on action in all parts of the 
UK. 23% of the abatement in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway during the 
Sixth Carbon Budget period is delivered in Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland. 
• 
The technical and behavioural challenges and solutions to tackling 
greenhouse gas emissions are broadly similar across the UK. This does not 
mean that each country will follow the exact same emissions reduction 
pathway, nor does it lessen the need for policies that are tailored for 
national, regional and local needs (see Local authorities and the Sixth 
Carbon Budget in the Policy Report).  
• 
Equal effort towards UK Net Zero will lead to different emissions pathways. 
The balance of activity across different sectors - particularly aviation, 
agriculture and land use, manufacturing and construction, fuel supply and 
greenhouse gas removals - means different levels of emissions reduction 
are possible in different parts of the UK through the Sixth Carbon Budget 
period and by 2050. 
• 
The scale of action required in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is 
broadly comparable to the current share of UK emissions. The costs of 
decarbonisation in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will likely be 
shared across the whole of the UK to some degree. 
• 
Devolved policies have a crucial role to play. 11% of all the abatement in 
the UK Balanced Net Zero Pathway is in areas where some or all key powers 
are reserved to the Scottish Government, Welsh Government and Northern 
Ireland Executive.  
• 
Nearly 60% all the abatement in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is in 
sectors where key powers are partially or mostly devolved. Priority sectors 
for devolved policy include agriculture and land use, buildings efficiency 
and heat, demand-side transport measures and waste.  
 
 
 
Our pathways for each part of 
the UK entail consistent 
amounts of effort, but lead to 
different overall reductions in 
emissions.  
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
208 
1. Opportunities to reduce emissions  
Chapter 2 of this report sets out the actions that are required for the UK to meet our 
recommended Sixth Carbon Budget on the pathway to reach UK Net Zero by 
2050. 
 
All our scenarios reflect strong contributions from a set of key technologies and 
behaviours. The technical and behavioural challenges and solutions to tackling 
greenhouse gas emissions in the 2020s and beyond are broadly similar across the 
UK: 
• 
Consumer and business choices. Significant changes in behaviour can be 
made alongside improvements to people’s lives. In some cases that means 
adopting new technologies that provide the same service (e.g. electric 
cars), in others it means larger changes (e.g. shifting to home-working or 
walking/cycling). Particularly important in our scenarios are a continued 
shift in diets away from meat products, a slow-down in growth of flying and 
reductions in travel demand.  
• 
Efficiency. Much of our use of energy, and wider resources, is currently 
inefficient. By better insulating buildings, improving vehicle efficiency and 
improving efficiency in industry the UK can use the energy we produce and 
the resources we consume most productively. 
• 
Electrification. Low-carbon electricity can now be produced more cheaply 
than high-carbon electricity and has potential to be rolled out at a scale 
many times larger than the UK’s current entire electricity demand. 
• 
Hydrogen & CCS. Low-carbon hydrogen can be produced from electricity 
or from natural gas with carbon capture and storage. Carbon capture and 
storage (CCS) is used to avoid further emissions from industry, alongside a 
role in permanent removal of  CO2 from the atmosphere and potentially in 
electricity and hydrogen production.  
• 
Land and removals. A transformation is needed in the UK’s land. Our 
scenarios involve planting of 300,000 hectares of mixed woodland by 2035 
across Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, accelerating to 850,000 
hectares by 2050. Peatlands must be restored widely and managed 
sustainably. Food waste will need to be reduced and diets will need to shift 
away from the most carbon-intensive products. Low-carbon farming 
practices must be adopted widely, and farm productivity raised. Alongside 
these nature-based removals, by 2035 the UK should be using bioenergy 
with CCS to deliver engineered removals of CO2 at scale – some of which 
could be located in the devolved administrations. 
 
The key factors determining the rate at which the devolved administrations can 
reduce their emissions before, during and beyond the Sixth Carbon Budget period 
are: different levels of activity and emissions in each sector today; existing land 
usage and opportunities for land-based removals; existing infrastructure; 
opportunities to remove CO2 from the atmosphere; and existing policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each part of the UK has a 
different starting point and set 
of opportunities to contribute 
to UK Net Zero. 
209 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 4.1 
Greenhouse gas emissions relative to population, economic activity, and land area 
 
 
UK 
Scotland 
Wales 
Northern Ireland 
GHG emissions in 2018 (MtCO2e) 
539 
55 
42 
25 
Population 
Population in 2018 
(million) 
67 
5 
3 
2 
GHG emissions per 
person 
(tCO2e/person) 
8 
10 
13 
13 
Economic 
activity 
GDP in 2018 
(£ billion) 
2,140 
160 
70 
50 
GHG emission per 
GDP 
(tCO2e/£) 
252 
340 
562 
505 
Land area 
Land area 
(km2) 
250,000 
80,000 
21,000 
14,000 
GHG emissions per 
area 
(tCO2e/km2) 
2,200 
700 
2,000 
1700 
 
Source: ONS (2020) Population estimates for the UK, England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland: mid-2019; ONS (2020) Regional economic 
activity by gross domestic product, UK: 1998 to 2018; ONS (2020) The Countries of the UK; NAEI (2020) Greenhouse Gas Inventories for England, Scotland, 
Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2018. 
 
 
a) Existing levels of emissions and activity in each sector  
 
The current sectoral shares of total emissions are different in each devolved 
administration (Figure 4.1), due to different levels of activity and output in these 
areas. 
 
Higher or lower shares of current emissions and activity in each sector mean that 
the pace and scale of mitigation actions - or failures to act - will have a 
proportionally higher or lower impact on the economy-wide emissions pathways 
for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Higher shares of emissions in sectors that 
can decarbonise rapidly in the next decade will mean that economy-wide 
emissions will fall more quickly. 
 
 
 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
210 
Figure 4.1 Sectoral emissions in 2018 for Scotland,  
Wales and Northern Ireland compared to the UK 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019;  NAEI (2020) Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2019; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Values shown use AR5 Global Warming Potentials with carbon-cycle feedbacks and include an estimate of 
emissions from peatlands. 
 
The following sectors differ from the UK share by more than five percentage points 
in one or more of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland: 
• 
Agriculture. All three of the devolved administrations have a significantly 
higher proportion of their total emissions from agriculture compared to 
England. Around 10% of all UK emissions are from agriculture, compared to 
16% in both Scotland and Wales and 27% in Northern Ireland. 
• 
Aviation comprises a much smaller share of emissions, particularly in Wales 
(<1%) and Northern Ireland (2%), compared to the UK as a whole (7%). 
• 
Electricity supply. Scotland has already nearly entirely decarbonised its 
electricity generation sector – meaning there is less potential to directly 
reduce emissions from the power sector in Scotland through the 2020s. In 
contrast Wales is a net exporter of gas-fired electricity to the rest of the 
Great Britain network, so decarbonisation of the electricity generation in 
the 2020s will have a greater proportional impact on the Welsh emissions 
pathway. 
• 
The manufacturing & construction sector has a much larger role to play in 
Wales, with the proportional contribution of Welsh emissions from this sector 
(23%) double the contribution for the UK as a whole (12%). 
 
Scotland has relatively high 
emissions from fuel supply and 
agriculture and relatively low 
emissions from aviation and 
electricity supply. 
 
 
Wales has relatively high 
emissions from manufacturing 
and construction and 
agriculture, but low aviation 
emissions. 
 
 
Northern Ireland has relatively 
high agricultural emissions but 
relatively low emissions from 
aviation, manufacturing and 
fuel supply. 
 
Scotland has already reached 
where the rest of the UK will 
get to by 2030 – a largely 
decarbonised electricity 
sector. 
Agriculture is bigger in each of 
Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland than in England. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
UK
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Share of total emissions
Surface transport
Aviation
Shipping
Residential buildings
Non-residential buildings
Electricity supply
Manufacturing and construction
Fuel supply
Agriculture
LULUCF
Waste
F-gas
211 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Surface transport emissions make up a smaller proportion of total emissions 
in Wales (14%) and Northern Ireland (16%) than in the UK (21%), but this is 
not due to a more carbon-efficient surface transport sector. Other sources 
of emissions increase the total national emissions that surface transport 
emissions are compared to (i.e. agriculture in Northern Ireland and 
manufacturing in Wales) making the share of transport emissions of the total 
smaller. Per person, surface transport emissions are actually higher in both 
Northern Ireland and Wales than the UK average. 
• 
Fuel supply emissions are very low in Northern Ireland compared to the rest 
of the UK, with virtually zero emissions from oil and gas production or 
refining. 
• 
Offshore oil and gas emissions. Around 15 MtCO2e of GHGs from offshore oil 
and gas exploration and production are classified within the UK 
Greenhouse Gas Inventory as ‘unallocated’ emissions and are not 
attributed to any of the devolved administrations totals. Decarbonising 
these sources of UK emissions will not directly affect the pathways for 
Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland – though there will be knock-on 
impacts for onshore emissions from oil and gas production. 
 
b) Existing land use and opportunities to remove CO2 from the 
atmosphere 
 
Emissions from land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) are inherently 
location-specific. Across the UK, there are differences in the types of existing land 
use, as well as in the types of land-use change needed to deliver the UK Net Zero 
target and the costs associated with those changes.  
 
As a result, the costs and benefits for England, Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland differ to the results for the UK as a whole. The two main differences across 
the UK that have been incorporated in our analysis are: 
• 
Different combinations of measures that can be deployed across England, 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland based on differences in geographies 
and existing land use (Figure 4.2). 
– Scotland. Around 18% of land in Scotland is currently forested, the 
highest proportion in the UK, but emissions from degraded peatland 
compared to net total emissions are much higher in Scotland 
(potentially up to 20%) than the UK as a whole (around 5%). 
– Wales. Wales has a comparable level of forest coverage to the UK, 
and has a very low amount of emission associated with degraded 
peatland, which is expected to add less than 0.5 MtCO2e to estimates 
of emissions once it is included in the inventory. Wales has a much 
lower proportion of land area used for crops compared to grasslands. 
– Northern Ireland. The livestock sector dominates agriculture in Northern 
Ireland (over 90% of agricultural GVA in 2017), particularly beef and 
dairy. This is reflected in the high proportion of grassland in Northern 
Ireland and low proportion of cropland. Forest coverage is also lower 
than the rest of the UK at around 8% (including small woodland area). 
• 
Differences in land acquisition costs in England, Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland. Other costs are also likely to vary (e.g. based on 
remoteness of land) but it has not been possible to take this into account.  
Scotland already has a large 
forest area, but also a lot of 
degraded peatland. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
212 
Our 2019 Land Use Policy Report found that the set of measures to reduce 
emissions from agriculture and land use in our scenarios deliver a higher ratio of 
benefits to costs in each of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland than in England. 
 
Figure 4.2 Existing land use in Scotland, Wales  
and Northern Ireland compared to the UK 
 
Source: Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (2020) and CCC analysis. 
Notes: Does not include land used for agro-forestry and hedgerows (<1% at UK level) for Scotland, Wales or 
Northern Ireland. 'Forestry' includes small woodlands. 
 
c) Existing infrastructure 
 
Some differences in infrastructure will continue as far as 2050. This is particularly 
important for the gas and electricity networks, existing housing stock, and clusters 
of heavy industry: 
• 
The gas network is much less developed in Northern Ireland, with only 24% 
of households connected to the gas grid in 2017 (although this is 
increasing), compared to 87% for the UK as a whole.3 Scotland and Wales 
also have a higher proportion of homes off the gas grid than the UK 
average. Heat decarbonisation options that rely on the gas network will not 
be possible in these particular properties, and will require a greater use of 
other options such as heat pumps and smart storage heating. 
• 
The existing building stock, including current levels of energy efficiency, 
ownership or tenancy type, heating technology, suitability for low-carbon 
district heating, and the proportion of buildings that are ‘hard-to-treat’ or 
heritage properties.  
Properties off the gas grid in 
Northern Ireland are likely to 
go straight to low-carbon 
heating rather than connect 
to the gas grid. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
UK
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Share of land area 
Cropland
Permanent
Grassland
Temporary
grassland
Rough grazing
Forestry
Agro-forestry
& hedgerows
Peatland
Settlements
Other
213 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Our analysis takes into account the different characteristics of buildings in 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland using a detailed model of the 
housing stock. Differences in population density also affects the number of 
miles driven by people in different parts of the UK. 
• 
Large point sources of emissions. Existing fossil-fuelled power stations and 
industrial clusters (e.g. the South Wales industrial cluster and Grangemouth 
in Scotland) are large point-sources of emissions that will continue to pollute 
until effective measures to decarbonise them are put in place (see Chapter 
3 and the Methodology Report). Reducing emissions from any large point-
source of emissions will have a larger proportional impact on Scottish, Welsh 
and Northern Irish emissions than it will on the UK total. The timing and pace 
of the transition to low-carbon technologies at individual locations will have 
larger impact on the total emissions pathway for each nation. 
• 
The UK’s airport infrastructure is concentrated in England, particularly 
around London. This means that successful abatement of – or failures to act 
on – aviation emissions will have a smaller impact on the total emissions 
pathways for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
• 
The Integrated Single Electricity Market is the all-island electricity network 
shared between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. As 
interconnection increases, energy policy in Northern Ireland must support 
an efficient, low-carbon electricity market to operate on both sides of the 
border. 
 
d) Potential to store CO2 
 
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is crucial for the transition to Net Zero. In 
addition to playing a central role in reducing emissions from industrial processes 
and combustion, as well in electricity generation and potentially hydrogen 
production, CO2 will also need to be removed from the atmosphere through 
greenhouse gas removals technologies, such as bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) and 
direct air CO2 capture with storage (DACCS). 
 
Under IPCC accounting rules the emissions credit for BECCS removals is allocated 
where the CO2 capture occurs (i.e. where the biomass is combusted), rather than 
where the biomass is grown. Greenhouse gas removal technologies could – in 
theory – be located anywhere in the UK and would count towards UK emissions 
reductions. 
 
However, there are strategic reasons why BECCS and DACCS might be best 
located in certain areas of the country – such as co-location with industrial CCS 
clusters, in close proximity to CO2 storage sites (Figure 4.3), or in close proximity to 
sources of biomass. 
 
 
 
 
The timing with which industrial 
clusters in Scotland and Wales 
decarbonise will have a big 
impact on total emissions. 
Unlike emissions reductions, 
deployment of greenhouse 
gas removals is not tied to 
specific location. 
It would be sensible for 
engineered removals to be 
located close to CO2 stores. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
214 
Figure 4.3 Map of potential CO2 storage  
locations around offshore UK 
 
Source: Energy Technologies Institute LLP, NERC and The Crown Estate (2020) CO2 Stored Database.  
 
The emissions pathways for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are therefore 
highly dependent on carbon storage capabilities: 
• 
If CCS is used in places that are not located near to CO2 storage sites, the  
CO2 that is captured must be used or transported to a storage site. This will 
incur higher costs (e.g. the additional costs of shipping CO2 at around 
£10-20/tCO2)4 and may make other solutions that do not require CCS such 
as electrification more cost competitive.  
• 
Large parts of Wales and Northern Ireland have more limited access to CO2 
storage sites and therefore do not appear to be the most ideal places to 
locate BECCS power plants. 
• 
Scotland has access to large CO2 storage sites in the North Sea, including 
disused oil and gas fields. Scotland’s land area and high forest coverage 
also provide excellent potential to grow and supply a large proportion all 
UK biomass. Together these imply Scotland is a good place for deploying 
BECCS power, although electricity transmission constraints will also need to 
be considered.  
 
Wales and Northern Ireland 
are less well-placed for CO2 
storage than England and 
Scotland. 
Removals could initially be 
from existing biomass power 
plants being retrofitted with 
CCS. 
215 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Particularly in the 2020s and early 2030s, the location of existing biomass power 
generation capacity in the UK will be important as these sites could be the first to 
be retrofitted with carbon capture and storage.  
 
e) Existing policies  
 
Existing and planned policies will have lasting effects for emissions pathways for 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. To the extent possible, we include these 
impacts in our analysis. These include: 
• 
Long-term contracts for electricity production that will drive new offshore 
wind capacity in the 2020s and recent UK Government decisions on other 
low-carbon electricity generation projects, including nuclear and tidal 
energy. 
• 
Tree planting. The trees that are planted today will continue to sequester 
carbon over time – particularly in Scotland where planting rates have more 
than doubled in the last five years, a supply chain is in place and funding is 
already secured for the next decade. 
• 
Peatland restoration. The Scottish Government is already carrying out 
significant peatland restoration actions, and has committed to fund the 
restoration of 220,000 hectares of peatland before 2030. These actions are 
included in the baseline emissions projections for Scotland, and our 
scenarios include the impacts of peatland restoration that is already taking 
place in Scotland but not yet accounted for in the existing GHG inventory. 
• 
Waste management policy is mostly devolved and differs across devolved 
administrations. This has been reflected in our analysis, with Wales and 
Scotland achieving higher recycling rates than England in our scenarios 
before 2030. Waste sent to landfill today can continue to emit greenhouse 
gases for decades, so existing policy will have an impact on long-term 
emissions pathways in the waste management sector. 
 
 
 
 
Wales and Scotland are 
outperforming the rest of the 
UK on recycling. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
216 
2. Pathways for Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish emissions  
Chapter 1 of this report sets out how the Committee has developed new scenarios 
to explore a range of ways to achieve Net Zero by 2050 at the latest, and used 
those exploratory scenarios to identify a balanced pathway towards Net Zero for 
the UK. 
 
In this section, we present an analysis of what the Balanced Net Zero Pathway and 
exploratory scenarios and the for the UK mean for emissions pathways in Scotland, 
Wales and Northern Ireland. It is in four parts: 
a) Defining pathways for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland 
b) Balance of sectoral emissions in 2050 
c) Scenarios on the path to Net Zero emissions for the UK 
d) Range of greenhouse gas removals needed to reach Net Zero 
 
a) Defining pathways for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland 
 
We have derived pathways for the devolved administrations in parallel with our UK 
scenarios as described in Chapter 1 (Figure 4.4). Broadly, this approach entails: 
• 
Deriving a baseline emissions projection for each sector to 2050 for each of 
the devolved administrations that takes into account, as far as possible, 
differences in current and projected trends across Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland. 
• 
Analysing the amount of abatement in each country that is consistent with 
the UK-wide scenario in each sector. 
• 
Combining these to provide five scenarios for each of Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland for the period 2020-2050. 
• 
Assessing the costs, savings and co-impacts of these actions. 
 
More detail on sector-specific methodologies for deriving sectoral pathways for 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is available in each chapter of the 
accompanying Methodology Report. 
 
A challenge in defining these scenarios has been to determine where greenhouse 
gas removals in the UK scenarios could be located geographically as – unlike 
reductions in existing emissions – these are not tied to a specific geographical 
location or existing activities. 
 
The Committee’s pathway analysis does not allocate specific levels of greenhouse 
gas removals that are used in UK scenarios. This includes the combustion of 
biomass to generate electricity with CCS (BECCS power) or the use of direct air 
capture with carbon capture and storage (DACCS).  
 
All of the emissions pathways in this chapter are therefore presented without the 
inclusion of any engineered greenhouse gas removals. 
 
 
 
Here we present the results of 
our Balanced Pathway and 
exploratory scenarios for 
Wales, Scotland and Northern 
Ireland.  
Due to the difficulty of 
allocating UK removals to 
different parts of the UK, we 
present results without these. 
217 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
However, we do provide a partial analysis of the potential for removals in two 
areas in Table 4.2: 
• 
Wood in construction. The potential for the use of wood in construction to 
store biogenic carbon for the lifetime of each building (typically 50-100 
years) is included in the range set out in Table 4.2. The potential for 
emissions removals from the use of wood in construction is much less than 
0.5 MtCO2 per year in our scenarios for Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. 
• 
BECCS in industry. Modelling of the manufacturing & construction sector 
identified opportunities to use biomass, biogas and biogenic wastes with 
CCS to generate process heat. These removals are not included in the 
pathways presented in this Chapter, but the range of potential is presented 
in Table 4.2. 
 
When recommending targets (e.g. in our parallel advice for Wales), we consider 
these pathways without engineered removals and then what different shares of 
total UK removals might mean for what level of emissions reduction is feasible. 
 
Figure 4.4 Our analytical framework includes  
five costed pathways for Scotland, Wales and  
Northern Ireland 
 
Source: CCC 
 
When recommending targets, 
we consider pathways without 
engineered removals and 
then consider ranges for the 
share of removals. 
Widespread 
innovation
Tailwinds
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread 
engagement
All achieve Net  Zero by 2050 or earlier, w it h different  balance of effort and success
Recommended 
pathway
Exploratory 
scenarios
Pathways for 
Scotland, 
Wales and 
Northern 
Ireland
Annualised resource 
costs
CAPEX, OPEX and 
investment 
requirements
Co-impacts
Costs, 
investment 
needs, co-
impacts
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
218 
b) Scenarios on the path to Net Zero emissions for the UK 
 
i) Contribution to Net Zero emissions for the UK 
 
Across the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, the contributions of Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland to emissions reductions remain comparable to their existing share 
of emissions (Figure 4.5):  
• 
Scotland contributes to 8% of all abatement action across the Sixth Carbon 
Budget period and 9% in 2050 in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, 
compared to 10% of UK emissions in 2018. Scotland is likely to also have a 
significant share of UK greenhouse gas removals.  
• 
Wales contributes to 9% of all non-GGR abatement action across the Sixth 
Carbon Budget period and 8% in 2050 in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, 
compared to 8% of UK emissions in 2018. 
• 
Northern Ireland contributes to 4% of all non-GGR abatement action across 
the Sixth Carbon Budget period and 3% in 2050 in our Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway, compared to 5% of UK emissions in 2018. 
 
 
Figure 4.5 Share of UK emissions and  
abatement during the Sixth Carbon Budget  
period and 2050 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; NAEI (2020) Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
Reductions in positive 
emissions are similar across the 
UK. 
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Northern Ireland
Wales
Scotland
England + offshore
Greenhouse gas removals
CB6
Out-turn and baseline
Balanced Pathway (no GGRs)
CB6
79%
78%
9%
8%
3%
10%
8%
5%
8%
9%
4%
79%
Abatement 
excluding
removals
Residual
emissions
219 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
ii) Balance of sectoral emissions in 2050 
 
As set out in Chapter 2, the balance of sectoral emissions in the UK in our scenarios 
for Net Zero in 2050 is most sensitive to residual emissions from aviation, agriculture 
and the amount of CO2 that can be removed from the atmosphere through 
forestry and greenhouse gas removals.  
 
As the size of the existing aviation sector in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is 
much smaller than England, the net emissions for each nation in 2050 are 
determined mostly by emissions from LULUCF and agriculture, and the amount of 
greenhouse gas removals that can be deployed. 
 
Figure 4.7, Figure 4.9 and Figure 4.11 show the breakdown of residual emissions in 
each scenario excluding any greenhouse gas removals.  
 
These charts also allow a comparison to the ‘Further Ambition’ scenario that was 
set out in our 2019 Net Zero report.5 Compared to the Further Ambition scenario: 
• 
The Balanced Pathway has lower emissions from manufacturing & 
construction and fuel supply (defined as ‘industry’ in our Further Ambition 
scenario). This is particularly important for Scotland and Wales where our 
sectoral analysis has focused on clusters at Grangemouth and South Wales. 
• 
The Balanced Pathway typically has comparable - or slightly higher - 
emissions in the agriculture sector.  
• 
The scenarios are typically lower than in the 2019 Net Zero Report, despite 
the fact that they do not have any greenhouse gas removals allocated to 
them.  
 
The Headwinds, Widespread Engagement, Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds 
scenarios explore a wider range of sectoral pathways in 2050. For Scotland, Wales 
and Northern Ireland, the sectors which have the biggest impact on emissions in 
2050 are: 
• 
The size of the net land use sink in 2050 which varies based on the scale of 
measures to remove carbon from the atmosphere, particularly tree 
planting.  
• 
The potential for further reductions in the agriculture sector due to 
behaviour changes and technological innovations. 
 
iii) Emissions pathways for Scotland  
 
Scotland’s emissions pathway gets to very low levels in 2050, reaching virtually Net 
Zero emissions in 2050 (99% reduction) even before accounting for Scotland’s 
excellent capability for greenhouse gas removals technology (Figure 4.7). Scotland 
would likely get to net-negative emissions well before 2050 in the Balanced 
Pathway once greenhouse gas removals are deployed across the UK: 
• 
The Balanced pathway is 64% lower than 1990 levels in 2030, and an 
average of 76% lower during the Sixth Carbon Budget period, rising to a 
99% reduction by 2050 without greenhouse gas removals (Figure 4.6). 
 
 
Scotland has high potential for 
natural removals and relatively 
low aviation emissions, so it 
can reach Net Zero by 2050 
even without engineered 
removals. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
220 
• 
The scenarios begin to diverge during the mid to late 2020s. Across the 
period 2033-2037, annual emissions in the Headwinds scenario are on 
average 2.4 MtCO2e (+11%) higher than the Balanced Pathway while the 
Widespread Engagement (-0.8 MtCO2e, -4%) and Widespread Innovation 
scenarios (-2.8 MtCO2e, -13%) are lower but broadly comparable to the 
level of the Balanced Pathway during the Sixth Carbon Budget period. 
• 
The Tailwinds scenario diverges most from the Balanced Pathway, reaching 
69% below 1990 levels by 2030 and Net Zero in 2045 without any 
greenhouse gas removals. 
 
Figure 4.6 Emissions pathways for Scotland without 
greenhouse gas removals 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019;  NAEI (2020) Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2019; CCC analysis. 
 
 
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Outturn
Baseline
Headwinds
Widespread Engagement
Widespread Innovation
Tailwinds
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
COVID-19
uncertainty
221 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 4.7 2050 emissions scenarios for Scotland  
in comparison to the 2019 Net Zero report 
 
Source: CCC (2019) Net Zero: The UK's contribution to stopping global warming; CCC analysis.  
Notes: The 'Industry' sector from the 2019 Further Ambition Scenario maps closely to the Manufacturing & 
Construction and Fuel Supply sectors. Fuel Supply emissions may appear slightly negative in some scenarios due to 
emissions savings from biomethane in the gas grid being allocated to Fuel Supply rather than to the end-use 
sectors. These additional emissions savings are larger than the other residual emissions from fuel supply. 
 
iv) Emissions pathways for Wales 
 
Wales’ emissions pathways also achieve very low levels of emissions in 2050 without 
the use of greenhouse gas removals (Figure 4.8).  
• 
The Balanced pathway is on average 78% lower than 1990 levels during the 
Sixth Carbon Budget period, rising to a 96% reduction by 2050. 
• 
The Widespread Engagement, Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds 
scenarios all reach Net Zero emissions by 2050 without the use of 
greenhouse gas removal technologies (Figure 4.9). 
• 
There is a distinct step-change in Wales’ decarbonisation pathway in the 
early- to mid-2030s due to decarbonisation at the South Wales cluster. The 
timing of the decarbonisation of Wales’ manufacturing, construction and 
fuel supply industries will be crucial for the overall Welsh emissions pathway 
as a contribution to UK Net Zero. 
 
 
 
Wales gets close to Net Zero 
by 2050 without engineered 
removals, due to low aviation 
emissions and considerable 
potential for natural removals. 
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
Balanced
Net Zero
Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
'Further
Ambition'
Sixth Carbon Budget Scenarios
2019 Net
Zero Report
MtCO2e
F-gases
Waste
Agriculture
Industry
Manufacturing & construction
Fuel supply
Electricity supply
Non-residential buildings
Residential buildings
Shipping
Aviation
Surface transport
Removals
LULUCF (net)
Total
Total (with removals)
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
222 
Figure 4.8 Emissions pathways for Wales without 
greenhouse gas removals 
 
Source: NAEI (2020) Greenhouse Gas Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2019; CCC 
analysis. 
 
 
 
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Outturn
Baseline
Headwinds
Widespread Engagement
Widespread Innovation
Tailwinds
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
COVID-19
uncertainty
223 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 4.9 2050 emissions scenarios for Wales  
in comparison to the 2019 Net Zero report 
 
Source: CCC (2019) Net Zero: The UK's contribution to stopping global warming; CCC analysis.  
Notes: The 'Industry' sector from the 2019 Further Ambition Scenario maps closely to the Manufacturing & 
Construction and Fuel Supply sectors. Fuel Supply emissions may appear slightly negative in some scenarios due to 
emissions savings from biomethane in the gas grid being allocated to Fuel Supply rather than to the end-use 
sectors. These additional emissions savings are larger than the other residual emissions from fuel supply. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
Balanced
Net Zero
Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
'Further
Ambition'
Sixth Carbon Budget Scenarios
2019 Net
Zero Report
MtCO2e
F-gases
Waste
Agriculture
Industry
Manufacturing & construction
Fuel supply
Electricity supply
Non-residential buildings
Residential buildings
Shipping
Aviation
Surface transport
Removals
LULUCF (net)
Total
Total (with removals)
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
224 
v) Emissions pathways for Northern Ireland 
 
Northern Ireland can achieve very significant reductions of greenhouse gas 
emissions in 2050 without the use of greenhouse gas removals, but none of our 
scenarios for UK Net Zero see Northern Ireland achieving Net Zero emissions 
(Figure 4.10):  
• 
The Balanced pathway is on average 60% lower than 1990 levels during the 
Sixth Carbon Budget period, rising to an 82% reduction by 2050. 
• 
None of the exploratory scenarios reach Net Zero by 2050, with the very 
stretching tailwinds scenario getting to a 94% reduction (Figure 4.11). 
• 
All of the scenarios see Northern Ireland reaching a further reduction by 
2050 than the ‘Further Ambition’ scenario, particularly due to greater 
emissions reductions in land use sector. 
• 
Emissions from agriculture are marginally higher in the Balanced Pathway 
compared to the ‘Further Ambition’ scenario from 2019. 
 
Figure 4.10 Emissions pathways for Northern Ireland 
without greenhouse gas removals 
 
Source: NAEI (2020) Greenhouse Gas Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2019; CCC 
analysis. 
 
 
 
Northern Ireland struggles to 
get close to Net Zero 
greenhouse gas emissions, 
largely due to high agriculture 
emissions. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO2e
Outturn
Baseline
Headwinds
Widespread Engagement
Widespread Innovation
Tailwinds
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
COVID-19
uncertainty
225 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
Figure 4.11 2050 emissions scenarios for  
Northern Ireland in comparison to the 2019  
Net Zero report 
 
Source: CCC (2019) Net Zero: The UK's contribution to stopping global warming; CCC analysis.  
Notes: The 'Industry' sector from the 2019 Further Ambition Scenario maps closely to the Manufacturing & 
Construction and Fuel Supply sectors. Fuel Supply emissions may appear slightly negative in some scenarios due to 
emissions savings from biomethane in the gas grid being allocated to Fuel Supply rather than to the end-use 
sectors. These additional emissions savings are larger than the other residual emissions from fuel supply. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Balanced
Net Zero
Pathway
Headwinds
Widespread
Engagement
Widespread
Innovation
Tailwinds
'Further
Ambition'
Sixth Carbon Budget Scenarios
2019 Net
Zero Report
MtCO2e
F-gases
Waste
Agriculture
Industry
Manufacturing & construction
Fuel supply
Electricity supply
Non-residential buildings
Residential buildings
Shipping
Aviation
Surface transport
Removals
LULUCF (net)
Total
Total (with removals)
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
226 
c) Range of greenhouse gas removals needed to reach Net Zero  
 
The scenarios set out in previous sections of this chapter are presented without any 
share of UK greenhouse gas removals. This section explores the range of 
greenhouse gas removals that would be required to reach Net Zero emissions in 
any given year (Table 4.2, Figure 4.12).  
 
The conclusions of this analysis are:   
• 
Scotland. Greenhouse gas removals should play a role in meeting 
Scotland’s 2045 target for Net Zero and are a key reason why Scotland has 
been able to set a Net Zero target ahead of the rest of the UK. 
• 
Wales. Greenhouse gas removals could play a role in Wales’ emissions 
pathway. We have identified some pathways for Wales to get to Net Zero 
emissions by 2050 without the use of any greenhouse gas removals, but our 
Balanced Pathway would require 2.2 MtCO2e in 2050. There is potential for 
around 1 MtCO2e of removals in the manufacturing and construction 
sector, including 1.0 MtCO2e of BECCS and around 0.2 MtCO2e from wood 
in construction. 
• 
Northern Ireland would not reach Net Zero emissions even in our very 
stretching Tailwinds scenario, unless a much larger share of UK removals 
relative to Northern Ireland’s expected storage capabilities and size of 
population and economy were located there. 
 
Table 4.2 
Range of greenhouse gas removals required to meet Net Zero in a given year (MtCO2) 
 
 
Required in 
Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway 
Range across Headwinds, 
Widespread Engagement 
and Widespread 
Innovation 
Potential for BECCS 
in manufacturing 
and wood in 
construction 
Amount of GGRs 
identified in 2019 
Net Zero Report 
Scotland 2045 
6 
3 - 9 
0.5 - 1.0 
12 (in 2050) 
Scotland 2050 
1 
0 - 4 
0.5 - 1.2 
12 
Wales 2050 
2 
0 - 4 
0.5 - 1.3 
1 
Northern 
Ireland 2050 
5 
2 - 6 
0.1 - 0.4 
<1 
 
 
 
The 2045 Net Zero target 
remains the right target for 
Scotland. 
Wales may be able to get to 
Net Zero in 2050, depending 
on judgements around 
allocation of engineered 
removals. 
It is difficult to see how 
Northern Ireland can reach 
Net Zero for all greenhouse 
gas emissions. 
227 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 4.12 Amount of greenhouse gas removals  
that would be required to reach Net Zero in  
a given year 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: The range shown is defined by the Headwinds, Widespread Engagement and Widespread Innovation 
scenarios. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
2
4
6
8
10
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
MtCO2e
Wales
0
2
4
6
8
10
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
Northern Ireland
Range
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
0
2
4
6
8
10
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
Scotland
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
228 
3. Implications for targets  
This report does not set out specific recommendations relating to climate 
legislation of Scotland and Wales, nor the creation of new climate legislation in 
Northern Ireland. 
 
We will shortly publish two joint reports reflecting on progress towards meeting 
Wales’ existing climate targets, and giving new recommendations on the level of 
the Wales’ Third Carbon Budget (2026-2030) and other emissions reduction targets, 
including the 2050 target. 
 
In parallel with this advice, the Committee has written to the Scottish Government 
and the Northern Ireland Executive to give further advice on meeting and setting 
climate targets.  
 
a) Targets under the Environment (Wales) Act  
 
Wales’ existing set of targets on the pathway to an 80% reduction in emissions by 
2050 are not consistent with the UK’s Net Zero target or our recommended Sixth 
Carbon Budget level. 
• 
In 2019, when recommending the UK Net Zero target, the Committee 
recommended that Wales should a target for a 95% reduction in emissions 
by 2050 relative to 1990. 
• 
The Welsh Government accepted the 95% target, and requested further 
advice from the Committee on whether a Net Zero target was feasible for 
Wales. 
• 
On 17 December 2020, we will give advice, as requested by Welsh 
ministers, on Wales’ Second and Third Carbon Budgets (2021-2025 and 
2026-2030) and targets for 2030, 2040 and 2050. This advice will include a 
recommendation on whether or not there is new evidence that would 
allow Wales to set a Net Zero target. 
 
Our advice on targets for Wales in the next decade is made more complex by the 
uncertainty associated with COVID-19. The lasting impacts of the pandemic on 
Wales’ emissions pathway in the next decade – either through permanent 
changes in behaviours or through reduced economic output – are still unclear. 
Future changes to the emissions inventory – particularly for emissions associated 
with forested peatland – add further uncertainty to setting those targets.  
 
b) Targets under the Climate Change (Scotland) Act 
 
Achieving Net Zero by 2045, ahead of the rest of the UK, remains the appropriate 
goal in Scotland. In our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, Scotland can achieve Net 
Zero in 2045 with a lower level of greenhouse gas removals than we assumed for 
2050 in the Further Ambition scenario for Scotland in our 2019 advice on Net Zero. 
 
In placing the Net Zero target for 2045 in legislation that amended the Climate 
Change (Scotland) Act, the Scottish Parliament also set in law a target for a 75% 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions for 2030 on 1990 levels. This went beyond 
the 2019 Committee’s recommendation for a target of 70%. 
 
Our advice on 17 December 
2020 will provide advice on the 
various targets under the 
Environment (Wales) Act. 
Achieving Net Zero by 2045, 
ahead of the rest of the UK, 
remains the appropriate goal 
in Scotland.  
229 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Scotland’s 75% target for 2030 will be extremely challenging to meet, even if 
Scotland gets on track for Net Zero by 2045. Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway for the 
UK would not meet Scotland’s 2030 target – reaching a 64% reduction by 2030 – 
while our most stretching Tailwinds scenario reaches a 69% reduction. 
 
Decisions on the greenhouse gas accounting methodology made by the UK 
Government could shift Scotland’s 2030 target more in line with our analysis for this 
report: 
• 
Our analysis uses conservative assumptions for how the global warming 
impacts of methane emissions and the way that emissions from wetlands 
are measured in the greenhouse gas inventory in future (see Chapter 2, Box 
2.1). This is to ensure that our recommended targets can be met regardless 
of the inventory methodology that is chosen.  
• 
The choice of methodology for the forthcoming inventory changes makes 
a particular difference in Scotland, of around five percentage points. 
Therefore, if the lower range of both of these methodologies (‘low-low’) is 
used our Balanced Pathway would equate to a 68% reduction by 2030 and 
our Tailwinds scenario would be 73% below the baseline. 
 
The Scottish Government should not rely on uncertain methodology changes to 
meet the legal target set by the Scottish Parliament. Contingency plans must be in 
place to ensure the 2030 target can be met regardless of the inventory choices 
made. 
 
In our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, Scotland would not reach a 75% reduction in 
emissions until 2035 (range of 2033-2036 across all scenarios). This suggests the need 
to potentially accelerate fifteen years of mitigation actions by around five years in 
order to meet that target, across all sectors of the economy. This would be 
extremely challenging, as these pathways already lie near the limits of technical 
feasibility. 
 
As set out in Chapter 2, the Tailwinds scenario – our most optimistic scenario, for 
which we currently lack the evidence to have full confidence, even if good policy 
is in place – only reduces emissions in 2030 by marginally more than the Balanced 
Pathway. The analysis presented in this Chapter suggests that even full delivery of 
the Tailwinds scenario in 2030 and ‘low-low’ inventory changes would leave 
Scotland short of the 2030 target. 
 
We give further recommendations on policy actions and external factors that 
could allow the 2030 target to be met in more detail in a letter to the Scottish 
Government published in parallel with this advice. 
 
c) A Climate Change Act for Northern Ireland 
 
Achieving the Net Zero emissions for the UK by 2050 does not necessitate that 
every part of the UK gets to Net Zero. Some parts of the UK will be ‘net sources’ of 
greenhouse gases by 2050 with emissions offset in other parts of the UK that are 
‘net sinks’.  
 
The analysis carried out for this report suggests that Northern Ireland achieving Net 
Zero greenhouse gas emissions is not necessary for the UK to meet its climate 
targets.  
 
 
 
Our most optimistic scenario 
would not reach the legislated 
2030 target, even with best-
case impacts of forthcoming 
inventory changes. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
230 
Emissions reductions in Northern Ireland are still crucial if the UK is to reach Net Zero 
overall, though: 
• 
In every scenario for achieving UK Net Zero that we have constructed, 
Northern Ireland would not get to Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions by 
2050. 
• 
In our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, Northern Ireland would reach an 82% 
reduction in greenhouse gases by 2050 compared to 1990 levels excluding 
engineered greenhouse gas removals. 
• 
Northern Ireland would achieve Net Zero CO2 emissions by 2050 as part of 
the Balanced Pathway to UK Net Zero. 
 
Our current analysis does not show a credible pathway for Northern Ireland to 
reach Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions as part of its contribution to the UK Net 
Zero target. We therefore do not recommend that Northern Ireland set a Net Zero 
target for all greenhouse gases. Instead, Northern Ireland should aim for at least an 
82% reduction in all greenhouse gases by 2050. 
 
There is no purely technical reason why Net Zero is not possible in Northern Ireland. 
However, compared to the scenarios set out in this report, Net Zero GHGs in 
Northern Ireland would mean one (or both) of the following:  
• 
A substantial reduction in output from Northern Ireland’s livestock farming 
sector that goes beyond the stretching scenarios we have analysed in this 
report.  
• 
A much greater than equal share of all UK greenhouse gas removals being 
located in Northern Ireland compared to its current emissions, population or 
economic output. 
 
A target for Net Zero CO2 emissions in Northern Ireland by 2050 would be consistent 
with the UK’s Net Zero ambition.* 
 
  
Table 4.3 
Emissions reductions for Northern Ireland in the UK Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
Time period 
Reduction in all GHG emissions 
compared to 1990 levels 
Reduction in CO2 emissions compared to 1990 
levels 
2030 
48% 
56% 
Average over UK 
Sixth Carbon 
Budget period 
(2033-2037) 
60% 
70% 
2040 
69% 
83% 
2050 
82% 
Net Zero 
 
 
 
* The Republic of Ireland’s Climate Change Advisory Council ‘Annual Review 2020’ recommends seeking EU 
agreement to creating a split national target for 2050: Net Zero emissions of long-lived greenhouse gases and 
anthropogenic methane’, with a separate, longer target for biogenic methane. The Committee will comment by 
letter on what an equivalent target would be for Northern Ireland.  
Our current analysis does not 
show a credible pathway for 
Northern Ireland to reach Net 
Zero greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
Northern Ireland achieving Net 
Zero CO2 emissions would be 
consistent with the necessary 
contribution to UK Net Zero. 
231 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
4. Costs and benefits in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland  
Chapters 5 and 6 of this report analyse the costs and benefits of meeting the Sixth 
Carbon Budget for the UK and how those costs are distributed fairly and efficiently 
across society.  
 
The economic resource costs of reducing emissions in Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland will vary by scenario and over time, as the balance of measures to 
reduce emissions will be different than for the UK as a whole. That is reflected in the 
cost estimates presented in this Chapter.  
 
We estimate the costs of taking action but do not identify how these will be paid 
for, either in terms of policy design or who pays. Chapter 6 expands on the 
distributional considerations of meeting the Sixth Carbon Budget, covering: 
• 
ensuring a just transition; 
• 
jobs and opportunities in the transition; 
• 
distribution of costs, household energy bills and fuel poverty; 
• 
competitiveness; and 
• 
fiscal circumstances. 
 
The net resource costs we report in this section should not be interpreted as the 
costs that would be delivered via devolved budget expenditure, nor as costs that 
only Scottish, Welsh or Northern Irish businesses and consumers have to bear.  
 
Many of the actions to reduce emissions will likely be paid for at UK level and/or 
socialised across the whole of the UK. For example:  
• 
The costs associated with building new low-carbon generation will be 
shared across all consumers of electricity on the GB grid. We have reflected 
this by allocating resource costs for electricity supply in proportion to 
consumption, rather than make assumptions on where new zero-carbon 
generating capacity (e.g. nuclear power stations) are located. 
• 
The costs of decarbonising industrial clusters could be met through a 
combination of direct financing from the UK Exchequer and/or be passed 
through to the end-users of low-carbon products. 
• 
A market mechanism for greenhouse gas removals could see the UK 
aviation industry offsetting emissions by paying for removals, including 
planting trees, in all areas of the UK.  
The extent to which costs and savings are shared across the UK – including the 
amount of expenditure through devolved administrations’ budgets – will be 
determined by policy at UK and devolved level. 
Table 4.4 sets out the range of annualised resource costs* associated with action in 
the devolved administrations in the Balanced Pathway. A more detailed set of 
sectoral costs will be available on the CCC website. 
 
 
* Annualised resource costs are the annualised additional investment, cost of capital and operating cost implications 
in a given year of a given measure relative to costs in an alternative scenario (generally a hypothetical world with 
no new climate action or climate damages).  
 
Estimates of overall resource 
costs at devolved level do not 
imply that these costs will be 
borne locally. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
232 
Our analysis shows that the costs of decarbonisation in Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland are roughly proportional to their existing share of UK emissions 
during the Sixth Budget Period. 
 
Table 4.4 
Annualised resource costs over the Sixth Carbon Budget period under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
UK 
Scotland 
Wales 
Northern Ireland 
Sixth Carbon Budget Period 
average annualised 
resource costs (£ billion) 
21.5 
 
1.6 
(7% of UK) 
1.4 
(7% of UK) 
0.6 
(3 % of UK) 
 
 
 
233 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
5. Recommendations for policy 
Delivering extensive decarbonisation in the UK will require a strong policy 
framework at UK, devolved, regional and local Government level. 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have (fully or partially) devolved powers in a 
number of areas relevant to emissions reduction. There are also clear overlaps with 
the need for policies at local level. 
While all sectors will require a significant degree of interdependent policies from 
both the UK and devolved Governments, the nature of the devolution agreements 
means that the balance of policy action between devolved and UK Governments 
varies across different sectors and subsectors of the economy (Box Table 4.5). 
 
The categorisation in Table 4.5 is a useful way of framing the challenge, but the 
policy landscape is far more complex. Many areas of devolved and reserved 
policies cut across multiple sectors. For example, devolved powers (e.g. carbon 
trading, education and public engagement), and reserved powers (e.g. energy 
taxation, monetary policy and international trade) can have significant impacts in 
almost every sector. 
 
Sole responsibility for any sector of the economy cannot be simply allocated to 
policymakers in Westminster, Holyrood, Cardiff and Stormont; co-ordinated policy 
action is required across every sector and by every department.  
 
Table 4.5 
Balance of devolved powers by sector 
 
Sectors where key policy levers are 
‘mostly’ devolved 
Sectors where key policy levers are 
‘partially’ devolved  
Sectors where policy levers are 
‘mostly’ reserved 
• Agriculture 
• Land use, land-use change and 
forestry 
• Waste 
• Buildings (NI) 
• F-gases 
• Buildings (S, W) 
• Surface transport 
• Electricity supply (NI) 
• Electricity supply 
• Fuel supply 
• Manufacturing & construction 
• Aviation 
• Shipping 
• BECCS for power generation 
 
In total, 11% of all UK abatement in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway will take place 
in sectors where key policy levers are ‘mostly’ or ‘partially’ reserved to Scotland, 
Wales and Northern Ireland as classified in Table 4.5 (Figure 4.13). Nearly 60% of all 
the abatement in our pathways for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is in 
areas where key policies are ‘mostly’ or ‘partially’ reserved. 
 
 
While some important policy 
levers are held in Westminster, 
powers are fully or partially 
devolved in most key areas. 
Nearly 60% of all the 
abatement in our pathways 
for Scotland, Wales and 
Northern Ireland is in areas 
where key policies are ‘mostly’ 
or ‘partially’ reserved 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
234 
Figure 4.13 Share of UK abatement that is in  
sectors where key policy levers are ‘mostly’  
or ‘partially’ devolved  
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: The range shown is defined by the Headwinds, Widespread Engagement and Widespread Innovation 
scenarios. 
 
Strong policy action is essential in areas where key powers are largely devolved: 
• 
Demand-side transport measures. Devolved administrations must 
implement effective policies to make it easy for people to walk, cycle and 
use low-carbon public transport. Electric vehicle charging infrastructure 
must also be expanded across all parts of the UK to ensure that the electric 
vehicle switchover works for all road users.  
• 
Buildings energy efficiency. Meeting the earliest possible date for Net Zero 
emissions will require major improvements to the energy efficiency of new 
and existing buildings, in order to improve comfort levels, lower energy bills 
and prepare the building stock for a switch to low-carbon heating. Policy 
to achieve these results in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will largely 
be delivered through devolved buildings standards and policy. 
• 
Agriculture and land use. Low-carbon farming practices, afforestation, 
agroforestry and peatland restoration all have a crucial role to play in 
reducing emissions by 2050. The framework to follow the Common 
Agricultural Policy in each devolved administration provides an opportunity 
for more closely linked financial support to agricultural emissions reduction 
and increased carbon sequestration. 
• 
Waste. Devolved administrations are responsible for reducing emissions 
from waste, with a focus on reducing, reusing and recycling waste, 
diverting biodegradable waste from landfill, and capturing methane from 
landfill and wastewater. 
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
MtCO
'Mostly' devolved
'Partially' devolved
'Mostly' reserved
Abatement in England and offshore
Balanced Net Zero Pathway
Out-turn and baseline
235 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Electricity and heat in Northern Ireland. Unlike Scotland and Wales, 
Northern Ireland has devolved control of its power sector, although the 
operation of Northern Irish I-SEM is affected by both UK and Republic of 
Ireland policy. For the UK to achieve Net Zero emissions, Northern Ireland 
must achieve equally ambitious decarbonisation in the power sector.  
• 
Heat off-gas properties in Scotland and Wales. Heat policy, energy 
efficiency and building standards are devolved, while regulation of energy 
markets, oil and gas, electricity and gas networks and consumer protection 
remain reserved to the UK Government. The Scottish Government can 
introduce measures to decarbonise heat in buildings without using mains 
gas, though it currently participates in the GB-wide Renewable Heat 
Incentive scheme.  
• 
Carbon trading is a devolved matter and the devolved administrations and 
UK Government have consulted on a UK-wide Emissions Trading System that 
is collectively agreed with the rest of the UK.  
• 
Leadership role. Effective policies in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland 
can set the standard for the rest of the UK. Recent examples include the 
Energy Efficient Scotland Programme and the Welsh Government’s Towards 
zero waste strategy. 
Where powers are reserved to the UK level, the devolved administrations have an 
important role in ensuring that the emissions reductions take place. In particular, 
the devolved administrations should focus on the following areas: 
• 
Planning. Planning frameworks are another useful lever over infrastructure 
that needs to be well aligned to objectives for emissions reduction in 
devolved administrations (e.g. through encouraging walking, cycling and 
use of public transport, ensuring readiness for or installation of electric 
vehicle charging points in new developments, and a favourable planning 
regime for low-cost onshore wind). 
• 
Procurement. The public sector in devolved administrations can use 
procurement rules positively to help drive emissions reductions in a number 
of areas (e.g. uptake of ultra-low emission vehicles, energy efficiency and 
low-carbon heat in buildings, low-carbon products). 
• 
Convening role. It is important the devolved administrations maximise their 
potential to bring stakeholders together, and facilitate dialogue and 
strengthen relationships, to enable the development of mutually beneficial 
projects that contribute to decarbonisation. 
• 
Working with the UK Government to ensure that UK-wide policies work for 
devolved administrations. 
• 
Access to UK-wide funding. The devolved administrations should seek to 
ensure that households and businesses have good access to UK-wide 
funding opportunities where possible and appropriate. 
• 
Communication and public engagement of climate risks and the options 
and choices available to reduce emissions across the UK. 
 
Actions by the UK Government will be necessary to deliver the Welsh and Scottish 
targets, and actions by the devolved administrations will be necessary to deliver 
the UK target. 
 
 
Even where the main policy 
levers are reserved to 
Westminster, there is a range 
of ways that devolved 
Governments can contribute. 
Chapter 4: Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland’s contribution to Net Zero 
236 
1 Welsh Government (2019) Wales accepts Committee on Climate Change 95% emissions 
reduction target. 
2 UK Government and Irish Government (2020) New Decade, New Approach. 
3 CCC (2019) Reducing emissions in Northern Ireland. 
4 BEIS (2018) Shipping CO2 – UK Cost Estimation Study. 
5 CCC (2019) Net Zero – The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming. 
 
 
237
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Investment, costs and benefits of 
the Sixth Carbon Budget 
1. Background to assessing economic implications
241 
2. Capital investment and operational savings
243 
3. Annualised resource costs during the transition
254 
4. Macroeconomic impacts
266 
5. Co-impacts along the path to Net Zero
271 
239 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction & key messages 
 
As the world increasingly embraces a trajectory towards Net Zero emissions around 
mid-century (see Chapter 7), the costs for any country of following that trajectory 
are likely to fall, while the risks of following an alternative path increase. Our 
scenarios reflect that, by transitioning as fast as possible within constraints such as 
for stock turnover and supply chain capacity. Our proposed budget would send a 
clear signal that the UK welcomes low-carbon investment. 
 
The transition to Net Zero emissions will be capital-intensive, with increased upfront 
spending that in turn yields ongoing savings in fuel costs. Much of these 
investments and savings will come from and go to the private sector, both 
businesses and individuals. Overall, we find that the net costs of the transition 
(including upfront investment, ongoing running costs and costs of financing) will be 
less than 1% of GDP over the entirety of 2020-2050, lower than we concluded in our 
2019 Net Zero report. 
 
In the near-term, against the backdrop of the economic damage from the COVID-
19 crisis, the required investment can support the UK’s recovery. Longer term, it 
provides benefits in reduced operating costs, lower emissions and benefits to 
health and the environment, and possible intangible benefits for the UK 
internationally.  
 
Our conclusions reflect analysis of the pathways set out in Chapters 2-4, new 
research on the macroeconomic impact of those pathways, and advice from 
expert groups convened for this and our previous reports. 
 
Our key conclusions in this chapter are: 
• 
UK low-carbon investment each year will have to increase from around £10 
billion in 2020 to around £50 billion by 2030, continuing at around that level 
through to 2050. That compares to total investment in the UK of around 
£390 billion in 2019. Similar scale-ups to this have been seen in the past in 
the key sectors of power, transport and buildings. The increase is 
deliverable, primarily by private companies and individuals, alongside other 
investment, provided effective policy is put in place. A key focus must be to 
continue effective low-risk policy for the power sector and extend it to 
other sectors, especially residential heating and energy efficiency.  
• 
Much of the investment spending can be recouped through lower 
operating costs. These savings, many of which relate to reduced reliance 
on imported fossil fuels, will rise to around £35 billion by 2035 and £60 billion 
by 2050. 
• 
Our estimates of annualised resource costs have fallen to less than 1% of 
GDP for the entirety of the period 2020 to 2050. That is lower than our 2019 
estimate for the cost of reaching Net Zero emissions (we previously 
expected cost to rise to 1-2% of GDP by 2050). 
• 
UK GDP may well be boosted. In the near-term, especially as the economy 
rebuilds after the COVID-19 crisis, increased investment can provide a 
multiplier effect to stimulate activity (and employment) in the rest of the 
economy. Although investments will have to be repaid in later years, there 
will be offsetting operating cost savings. Modelling commissioned for this 
report indicates a potential boost to GDP of around 2% by 2035. At worst 
the economy would return to similar levels to those expected without 
climate action. 
The required investment leads 
to large reductions in 
operating costs. 
The UK’s pathway to Net Zero 
requires a major investment 
programme that can help the 
UK’s economic recovery. 
The net annualised cost will be 
less than 1% of GDP through to 
2050. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
240 
• 
There may be further economic benefits from innovation or industrial 
opportunities. Our analysis is based on reasonably conservative 
assumptions over development of low-carbon technologies. Particularly 
with the recent strengthening apparent in global climate action, 
technology costs could fall very much faster (e.g. as witnessed previously 
for offshore wind), implying greater economic benefit. We have also not 
assumed any boost to GDP from UK firms capturing valuable parts of the 
growing global value chain for low-carbon products (the size of the UK 
manufacturing sector remains relatively constant in our pathways). 
• 
Health, well-being and the environment will also benefit. Our pathways to 
meet the Sixth Carbon Budget involve several changes with wider benefits. 
Increased walking and cycling and healthier diets would, if achieved, 
improve health, as will improved air quality as fossil fuel use is reduced and 
more comfortable homes as energy efficiency is improved. Transformations 
in our land to restore peatland and to plant trees and hedges provide 
opportunities to deliver environmental and well-being benefits, as well as 
improving our resilience to the impacts of climate change. 
 
This chapter focuses on the aggregate economic impact. While costs are small 
overall, they could be large for particular people, sectors or areas. The risk of 
localised impacts should be a key focus for the Government. The next chapter 
considers these related issues of how the costs are spread within the economy, 
including jobs and the just transition, energy bills, public finances and 
competitiveness. 
 
This chapter is in five sections:  
1. Background to assessing the economic implications 
2. Capital investment and operational savings 
3. Annualised resource costs during the transition 
4. Macroeconomic impacts 
5. Co-impacts along the path to Net Zero 
 
There may be wider economic 
benefits and benefits to health 
and the environment. 
241
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1. Background to assessing economic implications
a) The economic background
When the Committee recommended the UK’s Net Zero target for 2050 we 
demonstrated that the overall economic impact was likely to be small and could 
turn out to be positive. Action is clearly preferable to inaction given the large risks 
and costs from unchecked climate change. 
The COVID-19 crisis has sharply changed the economic backdrop in the UK and 
globally. The has UK lost almost 800,000 payroll jobs since the beginning of the 
pandemic as of October 2020,1 with several million additional citizens receiving in-
work support from the Job Retention Scheme. Relative to August 2019, GDP was 
9% lower in August 2020.2 Business investment also fell by around a quarter. These 
effects bring their own challenges but imply considerable spare capacity in the 
economy and therefore that increasing investment could support the UK’s 
recovery.  
In our 2020 Progress Report to Parliament we outlined the opportunity for a ‘green’ 
recovery - many climate investments can be delivered quickly, have high 
economic multipliers (i.e. they in turn stimulate further boosts to economic activity), 
create high numbers of jobs, and boost spending in the UK (rather than overseas). 
They can also bring a range of wider benefits, including for health and well-being.3 
b) Our approach in this report
Our analysis in this report builds on our 2050 analysis in our 2019 Net Zero report by 
evaluating the path for costs and benefits from 2020 to 2050. We have updated 
our assumptions to reflect new evidence (e.g. the latest offshore wind auctions 
and new research) and our wider range of pathways allows us further to explore 
uncertainty. We continue to draw on the advice from our expert advisory group on 
costs and benefits4 and have also drawn on new advisory groups on finance and 
health (see sections 2 and 5). 
Cost estimates are made relative to a hypothetical counterfactual of no-further-
climate-action: the costs and benefits are those of additional action relative to 
today. However, we note that such a ‘no-further-action’ world would increasingly 
bring its own costs and risks that we have not attempted to characterise. These 
would include costs from the impacts of climate change and increased risk and 
disruption by pursuing a direction that runs strongly counter to that adopted by 
and expected by businesses across the economy.5 Therefore our approach is likely 
to overstate the costs - which nevertheless are relatively small. 
The chapter first presents cost estimates for capital and operating costs (in section 
2), before grouping them together to look at the overall annualised cost of the 
transition with borrowing costs included (in section 3). We then consider the 
potential effect on GDP (in section 4), as well as the co-benefits of climate action 
(in section 5). 
Even with lower or positive economic impacts overall, we continue to emphasise 
the importance of a more granular analysis, particularly focussed on regional, 
sectoral and distributional impacts. We discuss these issues in Chapter 5. 
There is a clear opportunity for 
a ‘green’ recovery from the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  
Cost estimates are reported 
relative to a baseline of ‘no-
further-climate-action’. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
242 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Box 5.1 
Different metrics in this chapter 
This chapter discusses many different measures of cost, which have different 
applications: 
 
• Change in capital investment. Additional capital investment reflects the in-year 
spending required to deploy a given measure of abatement (excluding cost of 
capital). Much of the costs of this investment will be annualised through financial 
products and services, meaning that end payers (e.g. electricity users) will likely 
spread payments over longer time periods and also incur an additional cost of 
capital. However, the initial spending, and therefore stimulus, will occur in the years of 
the investment. 
• Change in operational costs. Additional operating costs refer to the difference in in-
year running costs between an abatement measure and the technology it replaces. 
For example, the difference in cost between buying gas for a boiler and electricity for 
a heat pump that replaces it. In most cases operating costs fall. 
• Annualised resource costs. Annualised resource costs are estimated by adding up 
costs and savings from carbon abatement measures and comparing them to costs in 
an alternative scenario of no-further-climate-action. Capital investments are 
annualised and include costs of capital so that capital-intense and fuel-intense 
technologies are more easily compared. Broadly, annualised resource costs measure 
the extra amount that needs to be spent each year to deliver the same services 
without emissions. This has been our headline measure for reporting economy-wide 
costs in previous reports, such as our 2019 Net Zero report and our 2015 advice on the 
Fifth Carbon Budget. 
– For example, installing energy efficiency measures (e.g. loft insulations, 
cavity wall insulations) in homes has an upfront cost but reduces demand 
and emissions. 
– There is an investment cost from installing the measures (e.g. labour costs, 
costs of building materials) followed by an ongoing stream of fuel and cost 
savings as well as costs of capital. The annualised resource cost measures 
its annualised investment costs less its cost savings. 
– This exercise is applied to all abatement measures in the economy to 
estimate total annualised resource costs. We treat demand-side measures 
(e.g. changes in travel choices and diets) as having zero cost – they would 
generally have operating cost savings but could also imply welfare losses 
(though we note that the changes in our scenarios, such as a shift to 
walking and cycling, could well be welfare enhancing). 
• GDP impacts. As resource costs do not consider the structural changes implied by 
different costs (for example, the effect of shifting resources from imported fossil fuels 
to UK investment), we consider also the wider macroeconomic impact through 
economic modelling. Further impacts could result from increasing business 
confidence to invest and through capturing some of the value of growing global 
markets for low-carbon goods and services. 
• Co-impacts. The changes in our scenarios imply important additional impacts, which 
are generally positive, such as for health and the environment. Although it is possible 
to monetise these, the evidence is incomplete and they generally do not map clearly 
to the economic measures above. As with the impacts of climate change that we 
are seeking to mitigate, they are often better understood in terms of their actual 
impact (e.g. as the number of lives potentially saved), so we present them separately 
to the economic figures.  
243 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
2. Capital investment and operational savings 
The Net Zero transition will be capital intensive as many low-carbon technologies 
have high upfront investment cost, in return for low ongoing operational costs. This 
represents a change from the technologies they are replacing, which tend to 
have higher ongoing costs but lower upfront costs.  
 
This section considers those two components of cost in turn: required investment 
upfront and then savings in operational costs. Section 3 then combines these 
elements to show a holistic view of annualised resource costs on the path to Net 
Zero. 
 
This section is in two parts: 
a) Investment required for the Net Zero transition 
b) Operating costs and savings 
 
a) Investment required for the Net Zero transition 
 
i) What our ‘investment’ estimates measure 
 
This section sets out estimates for the additional in-year gross capital investment of 
building a low-carbon economy.  
• 
The investment estimates represent the additional cost of purchasing or 
installing low-carbon technologies and providing the associated 
infrastructure for a low-carbon system, compared to a high-carbon system. 
We do not deduct reduced downstream investment, for example in fossil 
fuel extraction (but the reduced costs of purchasing fossil fuels are included 
in our operating cost savings below). 
• 
They are ‘money out the door’ in a given year, recognising that some 
assets take multiple years to build (e.g. a wind farm), and are presented in 
real £2019 values. We do not attempt to split out supply chain investments 
or development spending that may occur earlier in reality and may or may 
not take place in the UK. 
• 
The investment estimates do not include the costs of borrowing (we cover 
cost of capital in the section 3). 
 
As an example, transport sector ‘investment’ includes the additional upfront cost 
(not the finance payments) in each year of electric vehicle purchases compared 
to if fossil-fuelled vehicles had been bought instead, to which we add costs of 
additional charging infrastructure. We do not include investment in factories to 
produce electric vehicles or their batteries, nor do we reflect lower investment in 
fossil fuel extraction, refining or distribution.  This avoids double-counting costs that 
are components of the costs of vehicles and their fuels.  
 
ii) The investment estimates 
 
In our Balanced Net Zero Pathway, this in-year capital investment ramps up 
significantly during the 2020s and early 2030s from around £10 billion in 2020 to 
around £50 billion by 2030.  
Investment estimates are the 
in-year additional cost of 
purchasing or installing low-
carbon technologies 
compared to a high-carbon 
system. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
244 
It remains at approximately this level or slightly above until 2050 (Figure 5.1). By 
comparison, Gross Fixed Capital Formation in the UK in 2019 was approximately 
£390 billion (17% of GDP).*  
 
We have not explicitly modelled in-year capital investment post-2050, but it is likely 
that it will decrease as costs of low-carbon technologies continue to fall and as 
capital replacements can be deployed more cheaply than the projects they 
replace.  
 
While all sectors considered require additional capital investment relative to the 
no-action counterfactual, the main drivers of additional capital expenditure are: 
• 
Electricity supply (yellow in Figure 5.1). The additional capital investment 
(on average £15 billion over the Sixth Carbon Budget period) reflects the 
upfront cost of building capital-intensive low-carbon capacity such as wind 
farms, as well as the need to at least double the size of the electricity sector 
by 2050. The investment is considerably larger than for gas-fired power 
plants and confers later savings in fuel use. The additional investment falls 
after the 2030s as the required build rate for low-carbon capacity begins to 
fall and as costs of low-carbon technologies fall.  
• 
Fuel supply (grey green) covers the investment to build production and 
storage facilities for a low-carbon hydrogen supply.    
• 
Networks (grey). Networks refer to the infrastructure investment (i.e. ‘pipes 
and wires’) required to enable our pathways, principally investment in 
electricity transmission and distribution networks, but also development of 
Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) infrastructure. In our scenarios, 
deployment of electricity network infrastructure tracks the demand and 
capacity of electricity generation.† It therefore increases over time. Should 
this deployment be front loaded to ‘future-proof’ the electricity network this 
investment will occur earlier.  
• 
Surface transport (purple). Additional investment in this sector mainly refers 
to the higher upfront purchase price of zero-emissions vehicles and the 
costs of the supporting charging/refuelling infrastructure. Although we 
expect battery costs to fall, we assume that conventional cars would also 
have become cheaper if they remained mass market, so our estimates 
reflect a continued upfront premium for electric cars throughout the period 
– this is likely to be conservative but remains much smaller than the resulting 
fuel saving. The rise from the 2030s reflects the large-scale roll-out of low-
carbon HGVs which have higher upfront costs than fossil-fuelled 
alternatives. 
• 
Buildings (orange). Investment in energy efficiency measures, such as 
insulation, are prioritised between 2020 and 2030 in our analysis, explaining 
the initial ramp up in investment. From 2030 onwards, the primary driver of 
additional capital investment is the deployment of low-carbon heating, 
especially heat pumps, in residential and non-residential buildings. Heat 
pumps are more efficient than gas boilers, but more expensive to install. 
 
 
 
*  Our investment estimates do not directly align with ONS’s GFCF data. Differences in the calculations include 
transport and retrofitting housing. Whilst investment in transport equipment is included in GFCF, increased upfront 
spending for private car purchases is not – this is captured under ONS consumer spending. Permanent fixtures 
installed in residences are captured under GFCF, but boilers and heat pumps would be captured under ONS 
consumer spending. Nevertheless, GFCF provides a useful comparator for economy-wide investment. 
† This excludes network balancing costs (e.g. storage and frequency management). These costs are estimated to be 
around £1 billion per annum. 
The Sixth Carbon Budget 
requires a large investment 
programme, worth around £50 
billion each year from 2030 to 
2050. 
Most of this investment is in 
electricity generation, energy 
networks, buildings and 
surface transport. 
245 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF) (green). Our Balanced 
Pathway involves a change in how the UK uses its land, and significant 
expansion of tree planting. This drives a significant additional capital 
investment. 
 
Box 5.2 and Table 5.1 set out many of the underpinning cost assumptions for this 
analysis. To the extent that these assumptions turn out differently (e.g. if costs for 
renewable technologies or electric vehicles fall more quickly than we have 
assumed), the required investment levels would also differ for the same outcomes. 
It is also likely that investment requirements fall more in later years than we have 
assumed, for example because replacing low-carbon technologies at the end of 
their lives is likely to be cheaper than their initial installation costs. 
 
Figure 5.1 The Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
Investment programme 2020-2050 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: This figure shows a partial picture of the required investments, without offsetting savings as operational costs. 
This figure is therefore not indicative of the net costs of decarbonisation. For a full picture of the costs of Net Zero, 
see Figure 5.4. Electricity supply 2020 data is an average of historical 2018/2019 data and modelled 2020 
investment. LULUCF = Land use, land-use change and forestry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-year capital investment 
must ramp up quickly during 
the 2020s. 
Capital requirements stabilise 
at a ‘new-normal’ of around 
£50 billion additional 
investment per year from 2030 
to 2050. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
246 
Box 5.2 
Cost assumptions for our Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
Some of the key technologies required to achieve Net Zero have proven to be far 
cheaper than even the most optimistic forecasts. There is also potential for as-yet-
unknown technologies to emerge in the next 30 years that further reduce costs. This could 
enable faster, cheaper progress to be made reducing the UK’s emissions to zero.   
 
The Committee discussed in detail the impacts that innovation has on costs in our 2019 
Net Zero report (see Chapter 7).6 The costs and benefits of mass production have 
continued to become clear. As in our 2019 report, we have been conservative in our 
assumptions around falling cost of different technologies. Our Widespread Innovation 
scenario explores how costs might fall further. Our Balanced Pathway reflects the 
following key assumptions: 
 
• Renewable power generation. We have assumed modest reductions in the cost of 
renewables, incorporating the most recent offshore wind auction prices. There remains 
scope for costs of these technologies to fall further through learning-by-doing during 
deployment, which continues to increase globally.  
• Nuclear power. Nuclear is a mature technology, but we assume cost reductions for 
future plants after Hinkley Point C from utilising similar plant design and lower-cost 
financing arrangements (which the Government are currently considering).  
• Batteries. Batteries, like renewables, are commercialised at scale and have come 
down in cost significantly in recent years. With significant increases in expected roll-out 
of electric vehicles globally, cost reductions should continue.  
• Heat pumps. Heat pumps follow similar assumptions to our Net Zero report. We assume 
no major decreases in the cost of the technology, but future cost savings should arise 
from efficiencies in installation as the UK industry scales up. This may be a conservative 
assumption overall, as equipment costs could also fall, for example if different heat 
pump technologies are developed, or reflecting that the air-to-water heat pumps 
expected in the UK are a much less established technology.  
• Hydrogen. The hydrogen used in our scenarios is assumed to come mainly from 
electrolytic production of hydrogen using renewables and gas reformation in the UK 
with CCS. While reformation currently appears to be the lowest-cost option, we do not 
expect large cost reductions. We do expect cost reductions in the capital costs of 
electrolyser technologies, though the majority of the cost is likely to remain the 
operating costs of the technology. Towards 2050, as renewables make up a large 
proportion of the electricity mix, we see opportunities for low-cost electrolytic 
hydrogen to be produced by renewable electricity that may otherwise be curtailed.  
• Carbon capture and storage. CCS is still at the technology development and 
demonstration phase, although 51 large-scale projects are now operating or under 
development around the world.7 Commercialisation and wide scale development of 
CCS is likely to be needed globally as decarbonisation efforts increase. There is scope 
for cost reductions in capture plants as the technology enters this development stage 
and less scope for cost reductions in CCS transport and storage infrastructure.  
• Bioenergy with CCS (BECCS).  Sustainable harvested biomass or biogenic waste 
sources used with CCS results in negative emissions. Our scenarios include costs for a 
range of BECCS applications (e.g. producing electricity, hydrogen, av iation biofuels 
and industrial combustion) which can provide similar overall net emissions reductions. 
Though our scenarios are conservative on the cost assumptions for CCS, we do see 
some opportunities for retrofitting of CCS plant to existing bioenergy facilities to reduce 
overall BECCS costs. Almost all bioenergy facilities install CCS by 2050. 
• Direct air capture of CO2 with storage (DACCS). Direct Air Capture is currently at the 
pilot stage, with a small number of test facilities in operation globally. Given the early 
stage of development, costs of DACCS both now and at larger scales in the future are 
highly uncertain. Our scenarios suggest that the cost of DACCS could fall by 50-70% 
compared to today. The modular nature of DACCS could see faster cost reductions 
with mass roll-out, although energy requirements are likely to remain high. Direct Air 
Capture of CO2 can also be combined with low-carbon hydrogen to produce 
synthetic transport fuels, although costs will be higher than DACCS. 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
247 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
 
 
Table 5.1 
Cost assumptions behind key technologies  
 
 
 
Technology 
Balanced Pathway 
Widespread innovation 
Cost in  
2020 
Cost in 
2035 
Cost in  
2050 
% cost 
reduction 
by 2050 
Cost in  
2050 
Electricity 
supply 
Offshore 
wind 
£45/MWh 
£43/MWh 
£40/MWh 
11% 
£23/MWh 
Solar PV 
£55/MWh 
£43/MWh 
£40/MWh 
27% 
£23/MWh 
Nuclear 
£105/MWh 
£85/MWh 
£85/MWh 
19% 
- 
Gas CCS 
- 
£80/MWh 
£80/MWh 
- 
£80/MWh 
Heat 
Air source 
heat 
pumps 
£6,415 
£4,970 
£4,490 
30% 
£3,850 
Ground 
source 
heat 
pumps 
£13,380 
£10,365 
£9,365 
30% 
£8,025 
Hybrid heat 
pumps 
 
With 
hydrogen 
 
With 
biofuels 
 
 
 
£7,460 
 
£9,370 
 
 
 
£6,120 
 
£7,695 
 
 
 
£5,675 
 
£7,140 
30% for 
heat pump 
component 
 
 
 
£5,080 
 
£6,400 
Transport 
Batteries 
(for electric 
vehicles) 
£121/kWh 
£46/kWh 
£42/kWh 
65% 
£42/kWh 
Batteries 
(for HGVs) 
£370/kWh 
£105/kWh 
£65/kWh 
82% 
£42/kWh 
Fuel cells 
(for HGVs) 
£520/kWh 
£237/kWh 
£174/kWh 
67% 
£86/kWh 
Removals 
Bioenergy 
with CCS 
(average) 
£120/tCO2 
£106/tCO2 
£98/tCO2 
18% 
£98/tCO2 
DACCS 
£430/tCO2 
£240/tCO2 
£180/tCO2 
60% 
£120/tCO2 
Fuel 
supply 
Hydrogen 
production 
£78/MWh 
£37/MWh 
£37/MWh 
52% 
£31/MWh 
Ammonia 
production 
£145/MWh 
£76/MWh 
£75/MWh 
48% 
£64/MWh 
Synfuels 
production 
£280/MWh 
£140/MWh 
£116/MWh 
59% 
£84/MWh 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: All costs in £2019. Heat pump costs reflect average size in modelling, with the average size of an ASHP being 5.4kW, the average size of a GSHP 
being 8.1kW, and the average size of air source heat pumps in hydrogen and biofuel hybrids being 4.1 and 8.1kW respectively. GSHP costs include 
the average costs of groundworks, based on an assumed split of 80%/20% borehole and trench systems. Heat pump costs do not include the 
additional costs associated with household conversion, such as radiator upgrades and hot water tanks. These costs can be up to around £3,500 for a 
medium sized home. Costs of electricity generation in 2020 are strike prices for latest Contracts for Difference.  
 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
248 
Figure 5.2 reflects the Balanced Pathway on which our recommended Sixth 
Carbon Budget is based. The other scenarios in this report present a similar picture 
with investment scaling up rapidly to 2030 before flattening off, while 
demonstrating the uncertainty over the exact investment requirements (Figure 5.2). 
Although the Widespread Innovation and Tailwinds scenario achieve faster 
reductions in emissions, they do not involve higher investment costs as they assume 
greater cost reductions are achieved for low-carbon technologies (in part 
reflecting more opportunity for learning-by-doing in deployment).  
 
The Headwinds scenario has lower investment requirements, but also much lower 
operating cost savings. 
 
Figure 5.2 Comparison of capital investment 
across exploratory scenarios 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: This figure shows a partial picture of the required investments, without offsetting savings as operational costs. 
This figure is therefore not indicative of the net costs of decarbonisation. For a full picture of the costs of Net Zero, 
see Figure 5.4.  
 
 
 
There is uncertainty around the 
exact level of investment 
required, but all our 
exploratory scenarios follow 
similar trajectories. 
249 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) Operating costs and savings 
 
i) What our ‘operating cost’ estimates measure 
 
This section sets out estimates for the additional operating costs or savings that 
occur in-year through operating a low-carbon system. As the low-carbon system is 
typically more energy efficient, operational costs are generally cost saving and 
represent a pay back on the investments outlined above: 
• 
The operating cost estimates represent additional costs or saving of running 
low-carbon solutions once they have been deployed relative to the cost of 
the high-carbon option they replace.  
• 
There are costs or savings each year. For example, the avoided 
maintenance costs of electric vehicles would be an operational saving, as 
would the savings in petrol and diesel to run the vehicle. The cost of buying 
the vehicle would not be included, as we include that in our estimates of 
investment above.  
• 
As for all of our cost estimates, we do not include the impacts of taxes or 
other transfers. 
 
Most of the costs of generating low-carbon electricity are in the upfront costs of 
building generation capacity (with the exception of generation with carbon 
capture and storage, where the fuel costs are more important).8 Since those costs 
are included in our investment figures, we do not ‘double count’ the costs of using 
that electricity to power electric vehicles or heat pumps. We also allocate the 
small remaining operational cost for operating a low-carbon electricity system to 
the electricity sector. 
 
ii) The operating cost implications of the Balanced Pathway 
 
Many - though not all - of the technologies deployed in our Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway have considerably lower running costs than the alternatives they replace. 
The transport sector has by far the largest opportunity to save costs, with some 
further savings available for buildings and electricity supply. 
• 
Electric vehicles and HGVs. Electrified surface transport is far more efficient 
than high-carbon alternatives and has significantly lower maintenance 
costs. Overall, this can deliver annual operating cost savings of over £30 
billion by 2050. The majority of this (over £20 billion) is from eliminating the 
need for petrol and diesel in road vehicles (noting that the costs of 
electrification are largely reflected in the increased investment cost in 
vehicles and generating capacity). A further £7 billion is saved in annual 
maintenance, reflecting the fewer moving parts associated with electric 
drivetrains. Electrifying and improving efficiency for rail saves a further £4 
billion.  
• 
Electricity supply. Low-carbon electricity generation is typically capital-
intensive. It has high upfront costs and low costs in operation, in particular 
by avoiding fuel costs. The complete decarbonisation of the electricity 
sector by 2035 in our Balanced Pathway reduces operating costs by 
around £10 billion per year relative to the high-carbon alternative, even 
allowing for the operational costs of meeting the extra demand from 
electrification.*  
 
 
*   Low-carbon generation already makes up around half of UK electricity generation, otherwise savings would be 
higher. 
Many of the technologies 
deployed during the transition 
have considerably lower 
running costs than the 
alternatives they replace. 
Electric vehicles are far more 
efficient than fossil-fuel 
powered alternatives and their 
deployment will result in 
operating savings of over £30 
billion per year by 2050. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
250 
• 
Low-carbon buildings. Energy efficiency improvements and switches to 
low-carbon heating deliver reductions in operating costs for buildings. As 
with the transport sector the costs of electrification are largely captured in 
the upfront costs of installing heat pumps and low-carbon generating 
capacity. Total operational savings are around £8 billion per year by 2050.  
• 
Other. In other sectors, where electrification and the switch to renewable 
generation plays a less dominant role, operational cost increases and 
savings largely offset. Switching to hydrogen tends to increase costs, as 
does the slight increase in bioenergy use from today (so, for example, 
operating costs are expected to increase for shipping). However, these are 
offset by improved efficiency and some electrification. 
 
By 2050, aggregate operating cost savings will be similar to the annual investment 
requirements for the Net Zero transition (Figure 5.3). Operating cost savings build 
over time as low-carbon technologies are rolled out across the entire stock of 
vehicles, buildings and other capital stock. We note that operating cost savings 
could also imply reduced demand for some UK economic activity.  
 
Although much of the saving reflects reduced demand of fossil fuels, the savings 
above point to important implications for sectors such as refining and vehicle 
maintenance. We consider these issues in Chapter 6. 
 
Figure 5.3 Capital and investment costs and  
operating cost savings in the Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Costs of electricity are included in the energy supply sector, whereas costs of other low-carbon fuels such as 
hydrogen and bioenergy are included in the sectors that use these fuels. M&C is manufacturing and construction. 
Other category includes aviation, shipping, land use, land-use change and forestry, agriculture, removals, waste 
and F-gases.  
By 2050, aggregate operating 
cost savings will be similar to 
the annual investment 
requirements for the Net Zero 
transition. 
Capital investment 
requirements ramp up quicker 
than operational savings. In-
year operational savings 
exceed in-year capital 
investment from the mid-2040s. 
251 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
iii) Financing the Net Zero investment programme 
 
Now is an ideal time for the UK to invest. There are historically low interest rates and 
a potential demand shortage for that cheap capital. Economic recovery from the 
COVID-19 pandemic necessitates stimulus and many of the measures detailed in 
this report have been shown to have high economic multipliers. The challenge for 
Government is to make sure sufficient investment comes forward and to design 
policies to ensure that is done at the lowest possible cost. 
 
The Committee convened an expert advisory group to explore how the investment 
programme required to deliver the Sixth Carbon Budget could be financed, and 
what mechanisms could help to do this at lowest cost (Box 5.3). 
 
Our advisory group concluded that the ‘depth of the UK’s capital markets along 
with its growing expertise in sustainable finance means that this significant ramp-up 
in the scale of investment is eminently deliverable.’  
 
Key to scaling up financing will be implementing real-economy policies to ensure 
enough demand for finance (for example, stimulating the demand in the 
residential buildings sector to retrofit homes with low-carbon heating). The group’s 
policy recommendations, including for a National Investment Bank, are 
summarised in Box 5.3 and set out in more detail in the Committee’s 
accompanying Policy Report and in the group’s own report. 9 
 
While the aggregate investment programme is clearly large and would materially 
affect the economy, the scale of change is not dissimilar to those observed over 
recent decades. 
• 
UK aggregate investment has fluctuated since 1970 between 15% and 28% 
of GDP and was near the bottom of that range in 2019 at 17%.10 Delivering 
the additional capital investment outlined would raise UK investment to 
around 20% of GDP (if other investments remain the same).  
• 
The UK power sector has already scaled up annual investment since 2004 
from around £4 billion to around £18 billion in the late 2010s as renewable 
deployment increased, driven by effective policy support.11 Contracts have 
already been awarded through Government auctions to increase that 
further into the mid-2020s in line with our Pathway. 
• 
The £10 billion increase in annual spending on vehicles can be compared 
to a (real terms) increased spend on cars of around £4 billion over the last 
decade and £10 billion in the previous decade.12 More recently, increased 
costs reflect a trend towards larger cars, especially SUVs. That shift would 
have increased motoring costs, whereas the extra £10 billion required 
largely to shift to electric vehicles will bring large cost savings. 
• 
Between 2010 and 2019, yearly investments in renovating residential 
buildings increased from £27 billion to £32 billion. The 2013 homes energy 
efficiency programme resulted in approximately £1.4 billion of additional 
investment per year. Larger increases also occurred in new buildings. 13  
 
It is therefore reasonable to expect that the required increase in investment will be 
deliverable by private firms and individuals provided effective policy is used to 
ensure that these investments can be profitable.  
 
 
 
 
 
Now is an ideal time to invest, 
with historically low interest 
rates and a need for 
economic stimulus. 
The UK is well positioned to 
deliver the investment required 
to achieve Net Zero, so long as 
policy is well designed. 
The scale-up in investment 
needed is large but has 
abundant historical 
analogues. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
252 
Box 5.3  
Expert Advisory Group on financing Net Zero 
In March 2020, the CCC convened an expert advisory group on Net Zero finance to 
advise on the question: What is the role for finance in delivering the Sixth Carbon Budget 
and how can Government support it at least cost? 
 
The group was chaired by Professor Nick Robins of the London School of Economics 
supported by Roberta Pierfederici, and consisted of Andy Howard (Schroders), Dr Ben 
Caldecott (Oxford University), Daniel Klier (HSBC), Ingrid Holmes (Federated Hermes), 
Rishi Madlani (RBS), Dr Rhian-Mari  Thomas (Green Finance Institute) and Steve Waygood 
(Aviva). 
 
The group were convened for four meetings between March and September 2020. 
During these meetings the group mapped the financial system’s current ability to deliver 
a Net Zero target, analysed the investment requirements to deliver the CCC’s Balanced 
Pathway, identified potential barriers to delivery, and discussed issues relating to fairness 
and just transition. An additional meeting was scheduled to specifically analyse the 
impacts of COVID-19 on the UK’s ability to achieve Net Zero. 
  
The report made many observations and conclusions about the current state of the UK 
financial sector and its future ability to deliver Net Zero and the Sixth Carbon Budget.  
The key outputs of the report were 15 specific recommendations as well as guiding 
principles for Government and the sector. 
  
Headline conclusions of the report: 
  
• Deliverability of investment programme. The depth of the UK’s capital markets and its 
globally leading position in sustainable finance mean that the significant ramp up of 
capital investment needed is wholly achievable, providing that key barriers are 
addressed. 
• COVID-19 has deepened rather than deflected financial sector commitment to 
climate action. The way that the UK exits the economic crisis associated with the 
pandemic will profoundly shape its ability to meet climate targets, whilst also being 
an opportunity to achieve broader economic and equity goals. 
• Systemic interventions. Delivering the investment programme will require the UK 
financial system to adapt so that it is fit for the Net Zero age. This will require all 
aspects of the system to undergo shifts including public finance at all levels of 
Government and institutions, private finance, regulators and end-users.  
Recommendations of the report: 
• Strategic recommendations. The UK should commit to be the world’s first Net Zero 
financial system, focus on making Net Zero projects and plans investable and design 
all Net Zero policies so that investments are resilient, fair and enable local action. 
• Private finance recommendations. The UK should publish both sector-specific 
strategies and system-wide instruments to enable market innovation. Climate skills 
and knowledge of the UK’s financial practitioners should be deepened. The literacy, 
expertise and confidence of the end users of financial services should be built to 
increase demand for climate-aligned products. 
• Financial regulation recommendations. The UK should fully integrate climate risk and 
Net Zero into financial regulation and monetary policy. Net Zero targets should be 
made mandatory for financial institutions. Investor stewardship should be extended 
to incorporate achievement of Net Zero. Clear metrics are needed for the Net Zero 
transition at an institutional and investment level.  
• Public finance recommendations. The post-COVID-19 recovery plan should be used 
to fast track climate investment, reset fiscal investment and connect public debt with 
climate goals. Net Zero and sustainability goals should be set for existing public 
financial institutions. A National Investment Bank with a clear green mandate should 
be established. 
• International recommendations. The UK should build the international frameworks 
needed that can accelerate the financing of Net Zero, resilience and just transition.  
253 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
 
 
• Tracking recommendations. The UK should establish a regular assessment of 
investment needs and financial flows for climate action in the UK. 
Principles outlined in the report: 
 
• The investment requirement to achieve Net Zero can be met if effective policies and 
market frameworks are in place. 
• The mindset needs to shift from measuring the risks of climate change on finance to 
the alignment of finance with Net Zero, resilience and just transition. 
• Real-economy policies need to be investable to attract increased amounts of 
capital at low cost. 
• Financial policy and regulations need to be designed with Net Zero in mind and 
institutional gaps filled to increase the efficiency of capital intermediation. 
• Successful Net Zero financing depends on an effective financial architecture. 
Tracking financial flows 
The group highlighted the importance of increased tracking of capital into different 
areas of the UK’s economy. To enable this, the UK financial sector will need to be 
capable of classifying ‘green’, ‘brown’ and ‘grey’ investments. 
• Green investments. Investments into low-carbon technologies or sectors (e.g. a 
company that exclusively builds wind turbines).  
• Brown investments. Investments into high-carbon, non-transitioning technologies or 
sectors (e.g. a company specialised in building coal fired power plants with no CCS). 
• Grey investments. These investments are more difficult to classify, and refer to 
technologies or sectors that may be transitioning, or capable of transitioning (e.g. a 
utilities company with high current emissions but a robust Net Zero target).  
The Government should work with the financial sector to create clear guidance as to 
what composes a green, brown and grey investment, and how they should be treated 
in ESG portfolios. The recent announcements by HMT are positive first steps (Box 5.5). 
Tracking these flows will require a new or expanded institution, distinct from Government, 
with analytical capability and expertise in the financial sector. 
 
Source: The Road to Net Zero Finance, CCC Advisory Group on Finance. Professor Nick Robins, Roberta 
Pierfederici, Dr Ben Caldecott, Ingrid Holmes, Andy Howard, Daniel Klier, Rishi Madlani, Dr Rhian-Mari Thomas and 
Steve Waygood.  
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
254 
3. Annualised resource costs during the transition 
Section 2 presented the large investment programme for our Net Zero pathways 
and the significant operational savings that it yields over time. Investment costs 
were allocated to the years in which the investments occurred, not spread over 
the lifetimes of those investments based on an assumed cost of capital.  
 
This section annualises the investment costs to present the annualised resource 
costs for our scenarios, which is the basis on which we have presented costs in 
previous reports, including our 2019 Net Zero report. We find annualised resource 
costs that are expected to peak at less than 1% of GDP during the Sixth Carbon 
Budget period, remain relatively constant through the 2030s and early 2040s. 
 
This section is in four parts: 
a) Annualised resource cost estimates 
b) Average abatement cost estimates 
c) Uncertainties and sensitivities on annualised resource cost estimates 
d) Risks of higher costs and unintended consequences 
 
a) Annualised resource costs to achieve the Sixth Carbon Budget 
 
To calculate annualised resource costs we annualise the capital investment costs 
over their lifetimes using a suitable cost of capital (Box 5.4) and subtract in-year 
operating cost savings. The result indicates the extra spend required each year to 
provide the same goods and services but in a low-carbon way. We aim to include 
all relevant costs (for example, for electric vehicles we include the cost of buying, 
running and maintaining the vehicle, the charging infrastructure including network 
reinforcements, and ancillary costs such as insurance). 
 
We report these annualised resource costs for comparability with our previous 
estimates, but they should not be taken to imply an overall economic effect given 
the important stimulus benefits that the investment programme can bring during 
the recovery from the impact of the pandemic (section 4) as well as other co-
impacts (section 5), nor the avoided costs of additional climate change. 
 
Our analysis indicates that the annualised resource cost of reducing GHG emissions 
to Net Zero would rise towards 0.6% of GDP by the early 2030s, remain at 
approximately this level through the 2030s and early 2040s, before falling to 
approximately 0.5% by 2050. Our scenarios demonstrate the potential for slightly 
higher or lower costs, all around 1% of GDP or less (Figure 5.4). 
 
This is lower than the estimates in our Net Zero report for the costs of meeting the 
Net Zero 2050 target (1-2% of GDP), which themselves were in line with the cost 
deemed acceptable by Parliament when the Climate Change Act was passed for 
an 80% target in 2008.  
 
 
 
Annualised resource costs are 
the net of annualised capital 
investments (including cost of 
capital) and the in-year cost 
savings. 
Annualised resource costs of 
meeting the Sixth Carbon 
Budget would rise toward 
around 0.6% of GDP by the 
early 2030s. 
Our updated cost estimates 
are lower than estimated in 
our 2019 Net Zero report. 
255 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The change reflects new evidence and new assumptions: * 
• 
Cheaper electricity. Our latest technology costs for low-carbon electricity 
are lower than assumed previously. This reduces costs for the electricity 
sector and for sectors where electrification is an important option. This is 
based upon more recent costs of key renewable energy technologies 
reducing dramatically. In 2019 we assumed that the cost of offshore wind 
would be £50/MWh by 2050. In early 2020, the Government awarded 
contracts at just over £45/MWh for projects commissioned in 2023-25. 
• 
Increased deployment of lower-cost technologies. Some sectors see 
reduced costs because of more extensive roll-out of lower-cost low-carbon 
technologies, which our updated analysis suggests is feasible. For example, 
in the electricity supply sector we assume a higher percentage of 
renewables by 2050 than we did in our Net Zero report, and expect these 
to be cheaper than CCS plants or nuclear power. In manufacturing and 
construction, our detailed new research has indicated more scope for 
lower cost electrification. 
• 
Lower engineered removals. Our 2019 estimates included high estimates for 
the cost of the final 4% of emissions reductions – we described the various 
options as ‘Speculative’ and assumed a cost based on an estimate for the 
cost of CO2 removal of up to £300/tCO2. Our detailed bottom-up 
assessments for this report have identified and included more low-cost 
options, including for changed behaviours, reducing the need for 
expensive CO2 removals. 
 
We continue to expect the highest annualised resource costs to occur in the 
buildings and manufacturing and construction sectors and, in later years, from CO2 
removal from the atmosphere (Figure 5.5). We expect significant cost savings from 
the transport sector and in the longer-term from the electricity supply sector, with 
relatively similar costs as in the no-action world for agriculture, aviation and waste. 
These findings reflect the latest understanding of the costs of the most important 
options, set out in subsection (d) below.  
 
The balance of annualised resource costs across Scotland, Wales and Northern 
Ireland is broadly in line with their shares of emissions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* A small part of the impact is a result of our using a different baseline in this analysis. In 2019, we used a counterfactual 
world where no action on climate had occurred. As discussed in section 1, the analysis in this report uses a baseline 
of no-further-action. This means that a degree of the investment is already in the baseline in this analysis rather than 
included in future costs. It also means some of the cost reductions from existing climate policy (e.g. vehicle and 
building efficiency improvements that have already occurred) are not included. However, these changes are 
offsetting and do not materially affect 2050 estimates, by when most investment cycles will have completed. 
The highest annualised 
resource costs are expected in 
the buildings, removals and 
manufacturing and 
construction sectors. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
256 
Box 5.4  
Cost of capital and the importance of good policy 
 
To calculate annualised resource costs we use a cost of capital of 3.5% for any 
investments by Government or by households (e.g. purchase of electric cars and 
installation of energy efficiency in homes) and a range of higher costs of capital for 
investments by private companies (e.g. 6%-10% in the electricity supply sector 
depending upon the technology used). Given current record-low interest rates, this is 
arguably a conservative approach. 
 
Good policy can ensure that the cost of capital is reduced significantly, bringing 
material cost savings. Ensuring competition will also help cut costs and prices. 
 
• To illustrate the impact that cost of capital could have upon the cost of the transition 
the Finance advisory group proposed a best possible Weighted Average Cost of 
Capital (WACC) as well as an illustrative high WACC – 1.5% and 7.5% respectively.  
• The difference between a 1.5% and 7.5% WACC for the investment programme in 
Figure 5.1. is worth an additional £14 billion of annual borrowing costs (for an 
illustrative 7.5 year payback period). 
• While there is high uncertainty around the likely future costs of capital this analysis 
indicates the importance of keeping costs of capital low through good policy.  
The Finance advisory group (Box 5.3) pointed to the UK’s Electricity Market Reform as an 
example of a well-designed, coherent and effective package of policies to encourage 
low-carbon investment: 
 
• A clear direction. Since the Climate Change Act was passed, it has been widely 
understood that the power sector would have to decarbonise heavily given its high 
emissions and to support electrification in other sectors. 
• A stable, predictable carbon price. The UK introduced a carbon price floor in 2013 to 
underpin the price in the EU Emissions Trading System. 
• Investable market instruments. Following initial progress under the Renewables 
Obligation, long-term contracts for low-carbon power generation were announced 
in 2011, to be awarded by competitive auction. Emerging technologies (e.g. offshore 
wind) were explicitly supported in addition to more mature options. 
• Product standards. European efficiency standards for lights and household 
appliances drove down electricity use as products were replaced over time with 
more efficient models. 
• Enabling measures. Potential blocks on progress were addressed, guided by public-
private collaboration, for example, through the Green Investment Bank. 
A recent report indicated that the average Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) 
of UK offshore wind farms has decreased from over 10% in 2010 to below 7% in 2020.14 
This has contributed nearly 20% of the cost reductions over the same period.  
 
 
 
 
 
257 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 5.4 Annualised resource costs of the 
transition 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Percentage of GDP compares absolute annualised resource costs to OBR projections of GDP in that year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annualised costs are expected 
to peak in the early 2030s and 
then remain constant during 
the 2030s and early 2040s. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
258 
Figure 5.5 Annualised resource costs in 2035 and 
2050 in Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: When costs are presented as percentage of GDP, this is relative to OBR projections of GDP in the given year.  
 
b) Average abatement cost estimates 
 
The previous sections have considered the economy-wide picture for costs. 
However, it is also useful to consider the costs of individual measures or action in 
specific areas. Table 5.2 shows average abatement costs (per tonne of 
abatement) of key low-carbon options in 2035 and 2050. Average abatement 
costs are calculated by dividing the total amount of abatement in each sector by 
the annualised resource cost required to achieve it. It highlights that there are 
many actions with low costs and some actions that are more expensive. 
• 
Some sectors are cost saving by 2050. Implementation of measures 
outlined in Chapter 3 result in annualised resource cost savings for surface 
transport, electricity supply, fuel supply, agriculture and aviation. 
• 
Some sectors have neutral or low costs. Measures to decarbonise the 
waste, LULUCF sources and F-gases sectors can be implemented at little or 
no cost. 
• 
Some sectors will be more expensive. Decarbonising manufacturing and 
construction, buildings and shipping incurs annualised resource cost of 
£80/tCO2e or more by 2050. Enhancing land-use sinks, and developing the 
removals sector will also incur greater costs. 
 
 
 
-0.06%
0.14%
0.24%
0.12%
0.00%
0.01%
0.01%
0.09%
-0.27%
0.16%
0.50%
-0.16%
0.05%
0.07%
0.05%
0.17%
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
Surface
transport
Manufacturing &
construction &
fuel supply
Buildings
Electricity
supply
Agriculture &
land use
Aviation &
shipping
Waste &
F-gases
Removals
Annualised resource costs (£b/yr)
2035
2050
% of GDP 2035
% of GDP 2050
Net Zero 2050
Electricity supply and surface 
transport yield significant costs 
savings by 2050.  
Reducing emissions is expected 
to save money in transport and 
electricity supply in the long-
term. Higher costs are expected 
in buildings, industry and 
shipping. 
259 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Given this mix of costs and savings, our conclusion is that overall costs are likely to 
be smaller than predicted in 2019, and manageable. Our Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway indicates that net annualised resource costs are on average £17 billion 
per year during the Sixth Carbon Budget period, and decrease to £12 billion per 
year by 2050. This is a significant reduction from our previous estimate of £50 billion 
in 2050 in our Net Zero report. 
 
Table 5.2a 
Average abatement costs in 2035 by sector and subsector 
 
Sector or measure 
Abatement cost (£/tCO2e) 
Sector or measure 
Abatement cost (£/tCO2e) 
 
Electricity supply 
 
55 
Shipping 
135 
Variable renewables 
 
-80 
Agriculture 
-60 
Firm low-carbon power 
 
45 
Crops and soils 
-730* 
Dispatchable generation 
with CCS 
130 
Livestock 
-110 
Residential buildings 
 
140 
Machinery 
225 
Existing homes: behaviour 
change 
-60 
Waste management 
-170 
Existing homes: low-
carbon heat 
230 
LULUCF sources 
-10 
New homes: energy 
efficiency and low-
carbon heat 
135 
LULUCF sinks 
125 
Non-residential buildings 
 
175 
Waste 
30 
Manufacturing and 
construction 
65 
Surface transport 
-20 
Fuel supply 
 
70 
Cars and vans 
-10 
Biomass 
 
65 
Rail and public transport 
-710* 
Carbon Capture Utilisation 
and Storage (CCUS) 
160 
HGVs 
90 
Electrification 
 
90 
Aviation 
-45 
Engineered removals 
 
105 
Efficiency, hybridisation 
-530* 
Bioenergy with CCS 
 
75-150 
Low-carbon fuels 
115 
Direct Air Capture with 
CCS 
170-240 
F-gases 
-5 
 
Notes: * Some efficiency measures (e.g. for soils, aviation) save money and yield small emissions savings; this implies a large negative £/tonne.  
Not all sub-sectors shown, see databook for full breakdown. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall costs are likely to be 
smaller than predicted in 2019, 
low as a proportion of overall 
spending and manageable. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
260 
Table 5.2b 
Average abatement costs in 2050 by sector and subsector 
 
Sector or measure 
Abatement cost (£/tCO2e) 
Sector or measure 
Abatement cost (£/tCO2e) 
 
Electricity supply 
 
-50 
Shipping 
180 
Variable renewables 
 
-85 
Agriculture 
-60 
Firm low-carbon power 
 
45 
Crops and soils 
-525* 
Dispatchable generation 
with CCS 
130 
Livestock 
-185 
Residential buildings 
 
185 
Machinery 
75 
Existing homes: behaviour 
change 
-55 
Waste management 
-305* 
Existing homes: low-
carbon heat 
220 
LULUCF sources 
-10 
New homes: energy 
efficiency and low-
carbon heat 
145 
LULUCF sinks 
130 
Non-residential buildings 
 
170 
Waste 
70 
Manufacturing and 
construction 
80 
Surface transport 
-65 
Fuel supply 
 
65 
Cars and vans 
-65 
Biomass 
 
60 
Rail and public transport 
-625* 
Carbon Capture Utilisation 
and Storage (CCUS) 
180 
HGVs 
115 
Electrification 
 
125 
Aviation 
-45 
Engineered removals 
 
100 
Efficiency, hybridisation 
-275* 
Bioenergy with CCS 
 
50-160 
Low-carbon fuels 
110 
Direct Air Capture with 
CCS 
120-180 
F-gases 
-1 
 
Notes: * Some efficiency measures (e.g. for soils, aviation) save money and yield small emissions savings; this implies a large negative £/tonne.  
Not all sub-sectors shown, see databook for full breakdown. 
 
 
 
 
 
261 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 5.6 sets out the 2050 findings styled as a ‘Marginal Abatement Cost Curve’, 
which compares the average cost of abatement of key subsectors to the 
abatement achieved by those subsectors. We emphasise that the order these 
appear in the chart is only one factor to consider in prioritising actions. As well as 
taking advantage of cost-saving measures like switching to electric vehicles, it will 
be important to make progress in areas that are more expensive now to drive 
down their costs for the future (e.g. as has been seen for offshore wind) and to 
make progress in areas like buildings, where progress is needed now to stay on 
track to reach Net Zero emissions in 2050. All these measures need to be delivered 
to meet our proposed Sixth Carbon Budget and the 2050 Net Zero target.  
 
Figure 5.6 Average costs of abatement across 
major subsectors in 2050 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Full datasets can be downloaded in the Sixth Carbon Budget dataset at www.theccc.org.uk  
M&C stands for manufacturing and construction. LULUCF = Land use, land-use change and forestry.  
1 – Aviation: Demand management and agriculture: behaviour change 
 
 
c) Uncertainties and sensitivities on resource cost estimates 
 
There is significant uncertainty when making estimates of this type far into the 
future (as changes from past cost estimates suggest) and several factors could 
result in lower or higher costs.  
 
Our exploratory scenarios for the pathway to Net Zero illustrate some of the 
uncertainty over costs (Figure 5.4). These reflect both different choices between 
alternative abatement options (e.g. energy efficiency has a larger role in our 
Engagement scenario) and different assumptions (e.g. our Innovation scenario 
assumes hydrogen electrolysers fall rapidly in cost).  
Cost of abatement is only one 
factor to consider when 
prioritising actions.  
Around half of the measures to 
reduce emissions are 
expected to be cost saving by 
2050, primarily decarbonising 
electricity and surface 
transport. 
Residential buildings is the 
most expensive sector to 
decarbonise, but needs to do 
so to meet Net Zero. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
262
They also reflect somewhat different levels of effort (e.g. the Tailwinds scenario, 
which benefits from widespread innovation and engagement, reduces emissions 
to Net Zero by 2042 rather than 2050). Broader uncertainties imply a similar range 
around our cost estimates.  
•
Long-term GDP growth. We use the Office for Budget Responsibility's (OBR)
baseline GDP growth assumption to estimate GDP our to 2050, which
assumes annual GDP growth of 1.6% from 2027 to 2050. If GDP growth were
lower out to 2050 (e.g. if growth were just 1% per annum in the longer term)
the annual costs of achieving the Net Zero target would be 0.6% rather
than 0.5% of GDP in 2050. This estimate does not allow for any reduction in
the absolute abatement cost that could follow from lower energy demand
under a lower GDP growth rate.
•
Lower fossil fuel prices. The central cost estimates above use BEIS's central
values for future gas and oil prices. If fossil fuel prices were at the lower end
of the BEIS estimate then the relative costs of low-carbon technologies
would be higher. For our 2019 Net Zero report we calculated sensitivities for
the BEIS low and high fossil fuel price scenarios that increased or reduced
overall costs in 2050 by around 0.5% of GDP.*
•
Technology costs. Innovation could bring technology costs down faster
than expected. We note that the signs of strengthening climate action
internationally (e.g. Net Zero targets announced for China, the EU, Japan
and South Korea) imply a possibility of more rapid technology development
driven by global deployment.
– Electricity price sensitivity. A 10% reduction in the electricity price we
assumed for our analysis in 2050 would further reduce annualised
resource costs for end use sectors by up to £6 billion per year in 2050
(0.16% of GDP in 2050).
– Hydrogen price sensitivity. A 10% reduction in the price of low-carbon
hydrogen assumed for 2050 would further reduce annualised resource
cost for end use sectors by up to £1.5 billion per year in 2050 (0.05% of
GDP in 2050).
•
Costs of capital and discounting. Interest rates are at record lows (e.g. 0.1%
for most of 2020) and the economy needs attractive investment
opportunities. However, for the purposes of this analysis we have continued
to use Green Book guidance based on a social discount rate of 3.5% and
increased costs of capital for business investments. As set out in Box 5.4, a
lower cost of capital would reduce annual borrowing costs by billions of
pounds.
These uncertainties mean it is not sensible to be overly precise in reporting cost 
estimates. We emphasise our estimate of less than 1% of GDP, rather than our 
central estimates of 0.6% for the Sixth Carbon Budget period and 0.5% for 2050. 
Other studies have found similarly small overall costs (Box 5.5). 
*  We note that fossil fuel sensitivities are potentially mis-leading as they are endogenous to climate action – as the
world has more success in reducing fossil fuel use, so fossil fuels are likely to become cheaper. That is a benefit of
global climate action, but appears to increase cost in this characterisation. 
Broader sensitivities imply costs 
the order 0.5% of GDP higher 
or lower than we identify. 
263
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
d) Risks of higher costs and unintended consequences
The uncertainties on costs in the previous section do not change the conclusion 
that aggregate costs are likely to be relatively small compared to GDP. 
In this section we consider more qualitative and systemic risks, in particular the risks 
of poor policy leading to escalating costs. However, the Committee’s view is that 
these are risks best managed through careful policy design, rather than by 
adopting less ambitious targets. That view is reinforced by considering the 
implications of a slower transition, and the risks that it would also entail. The risk of 
localised negative impacts should have particular attention – as we discuss further 
in Chapter 6. 
The Net Zero transition will be a policy-led transition across the economy. That 
brings risks that poorly implemented policy leads to much greater than expected 
costs: 
•
A failure to allow suitably for competitiveness risks could lead to loss of
viable installations or deep damage to particular sectors. This could lead to
localised impacts that are not easily compensated by increased activity
elsewhere in the economy. The Government has previously recognised that
by introducing exemptions and compensations for energy-intensive
industries from climate policy costs.
•
A failure to develop electricity market arrangements, such as the capacity
market and balancing markets, to ensure security of supply as the share of
intermittent renewables increases could cause wider economic damage if
confidence in the reliability of UK energy supplies is affected.
•
Poor policies leading to poor implementation could result in extra costs that
are not considered here. For example, poorly installed insulation that leads
to damp, over-heating or safety issues may need to be removed and
replaced, leading to unnecessary costs.
Box 5.5  
External cost estimates 
External estimates of the costs of reducing emissions to Net Zero also support the 
conclusion that costs are unlikely to be more than a very small fraction of GDP (and there 
could be benefits):  
•
European Union. The European Commission’s 2050 long-term strategy estimated that a 
Net Zero GHG scenario for 2050 could be achieved at an annual GDP impact to the 
European Union of between a 1% GDP cost and a 0.6% GDP boost in 2050, relative to 
an 80% reduction scenario. The impact relative to a current policies baseline ranged 
from a cost of 1.3% to a boost of 2.2% of GDP in 2050.
•
G20. The OECD’s modelling also suggests a small impact to GDP from climate change 
mitigation. It estimated an average annual GDP cost across G20 countries of 0.3% in 
2050 for a scenario with 66% probability of limiting temperature rise to 2°C, relative to a 
scenario with 50% probability, and benefit of 2.5% of GDP in 2050 relative to a baseline. 
These estimates assume a 'decisive transition', where structural reform, fiscal initiatives 
and green innovation accompany carbon abatement policies.
•
The Energy Transitions Commission estimates that decarbonising the 'hard-to-treat' 
sectors (heavy industry and heavy transport) would cost less than 0.5% of global GDP 
by mid-century. 
While these analyses suggest a range of uncertainty, they all point to a small overall 
effect and suggest that it is possible that GDP could end up higher under scenarios with 
strong action to cut emissions. 
Uncertainties on cost will not 
change the conclusion that 
aggregate costs are likely to 
be relatively small compared 
to GDP. 
As with any policy-led 
programme, there are risks of 
higher costs from poor 
implementation and design.  
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
264 
• 
Administrative costs could be high or implementation could prove more 
difficult than expected - for example, the roll-out of smart meters has been 
repeatedly delayed. 
• 
A failure to provide a stable direction and policy certainty could introduce 
a risk premium and significantly increase costs of capital. Electricity market 
reform has been successful in this regard (Box 5.4). 
• 
More generally, any large transition brings risks of unexpected or 
unintended consequences not yet identified. 
 
It is important to consider these sorts of risks, particularly in policy design, but we do 
not consider them reasons to adopt a less ambitious carbon budget: 
• 
We have designed our scenarios to allow time for effective policy to be 
implemented and for markets and supply chains to respond. There is time 
to deliver provided decisive progress begins immediately. 
• 
The required changes are well understood and research continues across 
all areas, including in policy design. The history of, for example, electricity 
market reform demonstrates that the UK has the capacity to develop and 
implement effective policies to deliver changes, and at lower costs than 
often assumed in predictive scenarios like the ones in this report. 
• 
Even if costs did increase materially above our projections, their aggregate 
would remain relatively small. For example, if we add an arbitrary 
£100/tonne premium to half of the abatement required to 2035, the 
aggregate cost would increase by around 0.6% of GDP. Given our 
assessment in the next section that the wider economic impact of our 
scenarios could be a boost of around 2% to GDP, this could still imply a 
programme that was economically beneficial overall. 
• 
There are also potential unknown or unintended upsides, for example from 
spill-overs arising from innovations driven by the Net Zero transition. For 
example, historical reductions in costs of solar panels driven by global 
deployment have enabled greater energy access globally. Spill-overs from 
battery development for electric vehicles could bring new benefits for 
consumer electronics. 
 
A slower path to Net Zero would also bring its own large-scale risks that would also 
be hard to manage: 
• 
As COP26 president the UK is uniquely placed to lead a more rapid global 
transition. A less ambitious UK transition could lead to a slower global 
programme and higher levels of climate change.  
• 
Our proposed budget implies a decisive and clear pathway supported by 
policies that can give businesses confidence that their investments will be 
future-proofed. A slower path could introduce more uncertainty and more 
room for indecision that will increase costs of capital and lead to more 
capital scrappage as high-carbon investments continue unnecessarily. 
• 
Slow progress can also lead to unnecessary costs. For example, the 
historical failure to ensure that new homes are built to high zero-carbon 
standards has meant that over a million homes have been built that will 
require more expensive retrofit in later years and that have higher than 
necessary energy bills for their occupants. 
• 
A slower path would miss opportunities for increased investment to provide 
a boost to the recovery and to use under-utilised resources in the economy. 
A slower path to Net Zero 
would bring its own  
large-scale risks.  
265 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
The recent increase in climate commitments in other countries also 
emphasises there are risks attached to moving too slowly. For example, the 
EU are considering introducing border tariffs targeted at high-carbon 
imports and has signalled raising its 2030 emissions reduction target to 55%. 
 
These conclusions align to those of our Net Zero expert advisory group on costs and 
benefits. Their report emphasised that the benefits (including decreased climate 
risk) of Net Zero outweigh the costs, that good policy design is vital to keep costs 
low and maximise benefits and that clarity around the decarbonisation pathway is 
a key enabler of innovation. They also echo the Bank of England’s assessment, 
which identified the material risk that ‘transition risk’ poses to financial and 
economic stability in the UK. They highlight the importance of disclosure and 
forward planning to smooth out this risk. 
 
 
 
 
Our Net Zero expert advisory 
group on costs and benefits 
concluded that the benefits of 
Net Zero outweigh the costs, 
good policy design is vital and 
clarity will enable innovation.  
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
266 
4. Macroeconomic impacts 
While they are a useful indicator, estimates of annualised resource costs such as 
those set out in section 3, are not the same as macroeconomic impacts. In 
particular, the shift in spending from imported fossil fuels to UK investment is likely to 
affect the economy. Against the current backdrop of low investment, low interest 
rates and high unemployment the impact is likely to be positive. When we 
reconvened our costs and benefits advisory group in May 2020, they reinforced this 
message, concluding that the economic recovery from COVID-19: ‘gives the UK a 
chance to grow back in a way that is fit for the low-carbon future to which it 
aspires, and that can benefit from the industrial and economic developments that 
this future offers’. 
 
In this section we summarise the Committee’s conclusions on the need for a green 
recovery and set out the results of modelling we commissioned on the economic 
impacts of our recommended pathway. We also consider potential industrial 
opportunities. 
 
While this section focuses on the aggregate effect on the economy, there will also 
be important effects, both positive and negative, within the economy – for 
particular sectors, regions and groups of people. Those are considered in Chapter 
5. 
 
a) A ‘green recovery’ 
 
The pandemic and the measures introduced to respond to it have had huge 
effects on the economy that have not yet had their full impact: 
• 
Unemployment increased from 3.9% over April-June 2019 to 4.5% over the 
same period for 2020. An additional 9.6 million jobs (over 20% of the 
workforce) were on temporary furlough under the Government’s Job 
Retention Scheme.15 It remains to be seen how many of those jobs return as 
policy support is removed. 
• 
The impact on production output has remained significant. In August 2020 
production output was 6% below February 2020, the last full month of 
‘normal’ operating conditions. 
• 
In the wake of the initial pandemic, the Bank of England cut its interest rate 
to 0.1%. 
 
The Committee previously identified opportunities to use the investment 
programme needed for Net Zero to help support the recovery:16 
• 
Green stimulus policies can be economically advantageous in the short-run 
when compared to traditional fiscal stimulus. They have been shown to 
create more jobs and have higher short-run multipliers. 
• 
In the long run, investments in low-carbon and adaptation technologies 
create a ‘virtuous reinforcing cycle’ as initial investments lower costs and 
help to accelerate deployment and innovation. This has been seen most 
dramatically in the wind, solar and battery technology industries.  
 
Given the opportunity for investments to help stimulate the UK’s economic 
recovery, it is more important than ever to assess the potential economic effects 
beyond annualised resource costs. 
Annualised resource costs are 
not the same as 
macroeconomic impacts. 
Green stimulus policies would 
support the UK’s recovery from 
the economic down-turn. 
267 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) Estimated GDP impact 
 
To identify the potential effect of our recommended pathway for the Sixth Carbon 
Budget we commissioned Cambridge Econometrics (CE) to use their macro-
econometric model. Their analysis suggests a boost to GDP growing to around 2% 
of GDP by 2030, with an accompanying boost to employment of around 1%: 
• 
Box 5.6 summarises the CE work. It demonstrates that despite the added 
costs involved the transition is expected to boost GDP. This reflects that the 
stimulus impact of the increased investment brings more resources into the 
economy and economic multipliers are increased as less UK spending goes 
on imported oil and gas. 
• 
 The conclusions of this analysis are consistent with the findings of other 
studies (Box 5.5).   
 
The CE analysis indicates an ongoing benefit throughout the period considered (to 
2050). It may be that over time the relative boost is eroded as spare capacity in 
the economy drops, although there are also likely to be longer-term benefits for 
productivity and innovation from shifting resources to low-carbon options: 
• 
The CE analysis expects the GDP boost to continue growing after 2030 
before levelling off at around a 3% boost by 2050. This largely reflects the 
impact of reducing imports of oil and gas and directing spend instead to 
the UK economy. It also reflects an assumption of ongoing spare capacity 
in the economy, which could prove hard to sustain – the CE analysis 
assumes that employment will be 1% higher than it would have been across 
the full period 2020-2050. 
• 
If in the long run there is less spare capacity in the economy than assumed 
by CE, then the GDP boost could be lower, but still positive. The resource 
cost of up to around 1% of GDP provides a worst-case estimate for the 
economic impact, but appears unlikely given the various economic 
dynamics it ignores. 
• 
The low-carbon technologies deployed in our Sixth Carbon Budget 
pathways are likely to have more scope for innovation and productivity 
improvements than continued imports of fossil fuels. The markets for oil and 
gas are mature, meaning that significant productivity and cost 
improvements are unlikely to occur. By comparison we are seeing rapid 
improvements in the cost and productivity of low-carbon technologies (e.g. 
renewable energy and batteries for electric cars). 
• 
Our budget advice comes against a background of increasing numbers of 
businesses committing to their own Net Zero targets and trajectories. An 
ambitious Sixth Carbon Budget that ensures policy follows the same 
direction can help support business confidence and certainty in what to 
expect from policy. 
 
We conclude that the investment programme set out in section 2 can provide a 
significant economic boost in the coming years and support the UK’s economic 
recovery.  
 
These benefits may well persist into the longer-term and could grow if the new 
technologies continue to develop rapidly and provide spill-overs to other sectors. 
At worst the economy would return to something similar to what would have been 
expected without climate action, but with lower risks from the impacts of climate 
change and valuable co-benefits as set out in section 5. 
 
Modelling by Cambridge 
Econometrics indicates a 
boost to GDP of around 2% by 
2030, alongside a 1% boost to 
employment from the actions 
to meet the Sixth Carbon 
Budget. 
This reflects the shift in 
spending from oil and gas 
imports to UK investment. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
268 
Box 5.6 
Cambridge Econometrics analysis of the economic impacts of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
This chapter so far has outlined the investment requirements, operating cost savings and 
financing costs associated with the deployment of low-carbon technologies and 
behaviours in our scenarios. Although this implies a net cost (of less than 1% of GDP) this 
does not give a comprehensive view of the wider implications for the UK economy of 
the programme of decarbonisation envisaged for the Sixth Carbon Budget.  
 
Therefore, alongside our work for the Sixth Carbon Budget we commissioned Cambridge 
Econometrics to run their E3ME model, which replicated activity across the whole 
economy using our Balanced Pathway, and compared this to a world with no further 
climate action. In order to simplify assumptions this modelling assumed that the majority 
of increased costs incurred to pay for decarbonisation were paid through increased 
taxation, and no impacts of COVID-19 (e.g. higher unemployment) were considered.  
  
The results show that despite there being an overall cost in bringing about the 
technologies to reduce carbon emissions, there is an increase in economic prosperity, in 
terms of an aggregate increase in GDP, jobs and real disposable incomes. In particular, 
this is due to:  
 
• Investment in capital. The transition to a low-carbon economy requires that 
investment is brought forward into relatively capital-intensive technologies. The 
private and public investment stimulus makes use of spare capacity in the economy 
(i.e. unemployed resources, assumed to be available throughout the period to 2050 
in the modelling) and therefore increases the level of output (GDP). 
• Reduction in oil and gas imports. A particular feature of the UK economy is the high 
proportion of imports in the supply of oil and gas. As the economy transitions from 
ongoing spending on imported oil and gas in favour of low-carbon domestic 
investments, leakage from the UK economy is reduced and the implied economic 
multiplier increases, leading to increases in GDP and employment. 
• Falling electricity prices, from switching to a low-cost, renewables-led system. 
Overall, the increased level of economic output, as measured by GDP, creates demand 
for additional employment both in low-carbon jobs, and in the wider economy, as a 
result of increased GDP. Over the projection period employment is around 1% higher, 
equivalent to around 300,000 jobs.* As increased costs are assumed to be paid through 
increased taxation, the transition is progressive, and leads to increased income across all 
income brackets (including through paying less for electricity). 
 
The study presents a simplistic illustration of what a transition to Net Zero could look like 
for the UK, and key limitations include not having assessed multiple alternative pathways, 
not considering the near-term impacts of COVID-19 (which would likely reinforce the 
results, driven by increased spare capacity in the economy), and major uncertainties 
such as fossil fuel prices, and different levels of climate action in other countries were not 
considered.  
 
 
 
* This figure represents a net increase in employment, recognising that there is a reduction in employment in some 
sectors, such as refining, and an increase in others such as manufacturing and construction. 
269 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
Figure B5.6 GDP and employment in the Sixth 
Carbon Budget Pathway 
 
Source: Cambridge Econometrics (2020) Economic impact of the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
c) Industrial opportunities 
 
The Committee’s 2019 Net Zero Report identified some of the areas where 
decarbonisation could provide industrial opportunities to the UK (see Net Zero 
Report Chapter 7). These highlighted industries remain relevant: 
• 
Finance and insurance. The UK is already a world leader in green finance 
and insurance, and is well positioned to consolidate its position. The 
Government has already signalled its intention to make green finance one 
of the major themes of COP26, and backed this up with strong 
commitments such as establishing the Green Finance Institute as well as 
more recent announcement (Box 5.7).  
• 
Low-carbon power and vehicles. The roll-out of electric vehicles globally will 
create significant industrial opportunities. There is potential for the UK to 
play a significant role in the electric vehicle supply chain, for example low-
carbon finance, insurance and consulting, membranes and catalysts. There 
have also been announcements of ‘giga-factories’ being built in the UK. 17 
• 
Greenhouse gas removal and storage. Greenhouse gas removals (GGR) 
are an important feature of most global scenarios that meet the Paris 
Agreement's temperature goals and will be crucial for the UK if it is to 
achieve Net Zero emissions. The UK has a potential advantage in these 
areas due to its existing supply chains, infrastructure, and geological 
storage capacity.  
 
The Cambridge modelling also 
suggests a sustained increase 
in employment, though that 
may be hard to sustain in the 
long-run. 
The Net Zero transition provides 
opportunities for UK industries, 
including finance, power, 
vehicles, removals, hydrogen 
and low-carbon products. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
270 
• 
Low-carbon hydrogen. Our Balanced Pathway contains significant 
amounts of hydrogen. The Government’s hydrogen strategy, due early 
2021, should explore further opportunities for the UK to become a world 
leading hydrogen market.  
• 
Low-carbon products. Deeper decarbonisation of industries like steel and 
cement will be needed in the UK to achieve Net Zero emissions. Greater 
international demand for low-carbon industrial products could be an 
opportunity for UK firms, if they start to decarbonise their manufacturing 
processes sooner. The Government’s announcement of low-carbon and 
zero-carbon clusters are welcome.  
 
Box 5.7 
Recent announcements relating to finance and disclosures 
There were several high-profile financial sector announcements relating to Net Zero in 
November 2020:  
 
• The UK has announced its intention to make Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) aligned disclosures mandatory across the economy by 2025, with a 
significant portion of mandatory requirements in place by 2023. The Taskforce’s 
Interim Report, and accompanying roadmap, sets out an indicative pathway to 
achieving this. 
• The UK Government announced a sovereign green bond. The Green Finance Institute 
said this ‘delivers on plans to move towards a resilient, Net Zero carbon economy that 
will bring a range of positive social benefits such as creating green collar jobs, skills 
and regional revitalisation,’ and will ‘provide finance for green infrastructure, … 
create green jobs and catalyse the sterling green bond market.’ 
• The Bank of England confirmed the date of publication for its Stress Test, after 
postponement due to the pandemic, as June 2021. 
• The Financial Reporting Council plans to raise the bar on climate change reporting. It 
‘supports the introduction of global standards on non-financial reporting and will 
engage with organisations working to achieve that goal. In the meantime, the FRC 
encourages UK public interest entities to report against the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD) 11 recommended disclosures and, with 
reference to their sector, using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
metrics.’ 
• Mark Carney in his role as Prime Minister’s Finance Adviser for COP26 announced a 
Private Finance Strategy for climate change ahead of COP26. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Climate change is increasingly 
recognised in financial 
regulation and policy. 
271 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
5. Co-impacts along the path to Net Zero 
The main motivation for Net Zero is limiting the impact of climate change. Through 
the UK acting on its own emissions, it contributes and accelerates the global effort 
and therefore reaps the rewards of a world with a lower amount of warming.  
 
Alongside this primary driver, and the potential economic benefits set out above, 
there are additional benefits on the path to Net Zero, namely significant, tangible 
improvements to public health and environment and biodiversity benefits.  
 
There are also potential negative impacts, and these risks must be planned for and 
mitigated. For example, switching to electric vehicles will not resolve congestion or 
air pollution caused by wear on tyres (as fossil fuel power vehicles do). Bioenergy 
too brings the risk of negative air quality impacts.  
 
Our scenarios are designed to limit the negative impacts while increasing the 
positive co-impacts. For example, walking, cycling and public transport replace a 
significant proportion of car-miles in the Balanced Pathway, and decarbonising 
buildings is primarily through efficiency and electrification and/or hydrogen rather 
than deploying domestic biomass boilers. 
 
The positive co-impacts of reaching Net Zero overwhelmingly outweigh the 
negatives, especially if supported by the right policy decisions from the 
Government to maximise societal benefits and minimise the risks.  
 
a) Climate benefits 
 
Avoiding warming will result in significant benefits for the UK. The climate impacts 
the UK experiences will ultimately be driven by the global decarbonisation 
pathway. However, by the Government pursuing an emissions pathway aligned 
with the Paris Agreement, it can better influence the global emissions trajectory.  
 
Table 5.3 highlights the avoided impacts for the UK on a path to 2°C of warming 
compared to a path to 4°C of warming. 
 
1.5-2°C of warming will still require the UK to adapt, however the risks at 3-4°C 
warming, and hence the costs of adaptation, are significantly higher. Our third 
Climate Change Risk Assessment will be published in 2021, and will review the 
current state of adaptation in the UK.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alongside limiting the impact 
of climate change, there are a 
host of wider economic, 
social, health and bio-diversity 
benefits. 
The adaptation burden to the 
UK of 3-4°C will be substantially 
higher than 1.5-2°C of 
warming. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
272 
Table 5.3  
Range of climate risks for the UK 
 
2°C warming by 2100 
4°C warming by 2100 
Variable  
Present day 
2050s 
2080s 
2050s 
2080s 
Annual mean 
temperature (°C) 
8.8 
+0.3 to + 2.2 
+0.3 to +2.6 
+0.6 to +2.9 
+1.9 to +6.3 
Heatwaves 
(probability of 
temperatures as 
hot as 2018) 
10-25% 
50% 
50% 
50% 
90% 
Flooding (no. 
people living in 
significant risk 
areas, England 
only) 
1.4 million 
2.1 million 
2.6 million 
2.8 million 
3.7 million 
Water availability 
(supply demand 
deficit in litres per 
day, England only) 
0 
1.1 billion litre 
deficit 
1.8 billion litre 
deficit 
3 billion litre 
deficit 
5.7 billion litre 
deficit 
Heat mortality 
(number of excess 
deaths from 
overheating) 
2,000 
5,000 
No data 
5,000 
10,700 
Impacts on 
agriculture from 
drought 
(percentage 
change in 
Agricultural Land 
Classification 
grade 4 (poor 
quality) National 
Soil inventory sites, 
England and Wales 
only) 
2.2% 
25% 
36% 
43% 
66% 
 
Source: UK Climate Change Risk Assessment (2017). 
 
 
 
b) Health and well-being benefits 
 
There is clear evidence for the health benefits of the Net Zero transition. Some of 
these come directly from changes required to achieve Net Zero (e.g. more active 
travel and dietary changes) and some indirectly from the implications of those 
changes (e.g. better air quality from reduced burning of fossil fuels and more 
liveable buildings as insulation is improved). These benefits are difficult to quantify, 
but unquestionably offset some, if not all, of the overall resource costs of achieving 
emissions targets.  
 
The Committee appointed an expert advisory group on Health to support our 
advice on the Sixth Carbon Budget (Box 5.8). The group concurred strongly with 
the Committee’s previous assessment that climate action could bring significant 
benefits to health.  
 
Health benefits will be 
widespread, including from 
better air quality, more 
liveable buildings, active travel 
and healthier diets. 
273 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
They emphasised the importance of health inequalities and identified areas for 
prioritising climate actions that would bring benefits to public health and climate 
change, and made a set of related recommendations. 
 
The health benefits are generally higher on demand-side measures of abatement, 
such as diets and active travel.  
• 
Shift toward active travel. Our scenarios include higher rates of walking and 
cycling, with a shift away from car trips. Active travel brings with it a host of 
health benefits. 
• 
Healthier diets. Our scenarios explore different degrees of diet shift away 
from meat products. Shifting meat consumption more in line with 
Government guidance would have significant health impacts. A 2013 
report that the Committee commissioned from Ricardo indicated that the 
health impacts of reducing red meat consumption by 50% amounted to an 
annual monetised benefit of 0.5% of GDP.18  
• 
Air quality. Poor air quality causes significant harm to health. It is associated 
with heart disease and stroke, and particulates cause up to 40,000 deaths 
per year in the UK.19 Many sources of air pollution are decreased by 
reducing GHG emissions. Ricardo's 2013 estimates suggest that air quality 
and noise impacts of a low-carbon scenario result in annual monetised 
benefits of close to 0.1% of GDP in 2030. 
• 
More liveable homes. The health cost to the NHS due to poor housing 
exacerbating existing conditions is estimated to be £1.4-2 billion per year. 20 
Thermally comfortable housing has the potential to reduce the risk of heat 
and cold related illness and death.  
• 
Mental health improvements. There are a host of benefits to mental health 
that are also promised by a Net Zero UK. The improved physical health 
resulting from and contributing to decarbonisation has knock on impacts 
on mental health. Some of the changes in our scenarios, for example the 
expansion of mixed woodlands, have also been shown to have positive 
effects on mental health. Further to this, ‘climate anxiety’ is a growing 
phenomenon, and action contributes to alleviating this burden.  
 
While noting the potential the above benefits will bring to public health, our 
advisory group noted that the biggest driver of health outcomes in the UK remains 
economic inequality. A just transition is therefore an essential part of a successful 
climate policy and health policy. It is vital for both acceptance and efficacy that 
policies that reduce emissions do not place burdens on those least able to pay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Delivering the Sixth Carbon 
Budget would materially 
improve air quality.  
The transition to Net Zero must 
not place additional financial 
burden on regions or 
households suffering 
deprivation. 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
274 
Box 5.7 
Health Expert Advisory Group 
The Health Expert Advisory Group was convened by the Committee in 2020 to advise on 
assessing the health impacts of setting the Sixth Carbon Budget and ensuring the 
Committee’s recommendations are aligned with improving public health in the UK. The 
Group was chaired by Professor Sir Michael Marmot, UCL Institute of Health Equity, and 
its members were drawn primarily from the academic community with expertise in a 
variety of fields, plus representation from the NHS Sustainable Development Unit.  
 
The central message of the Chair's report is that a strategy to achieve Net Zero emissions 
should have health equity - the fair distribution of health - as an explicit policy goal, and 
that a health- equity-in-all-policies approach be adopted. Action to improve health 
equity can be consistent with measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt 
to climate change, but it is evident that this requires careful consideration of who 
benefits from and who pays for different policy measures. 
 
The clear positive co-impacts of health outcomes and Net Zero 
 
The Group found that the near-term benefits to health of taking action on climate 
change are manifold.  
 
The group identified five key areas in which action would bring benefits to public health 
and reduction of health inequalities while contributing to the mitigation of - and 
adaptation to - climate change:  
 
• Improved air quality delivered by a move to a cleaner energy system and moving 
away from fossil fuel combustion in most sectors of the UK.  
• Healthier modes of transport, particularly due to the health benefits of walking and 
cycling and reducing air pollution from road vehicles. 
• More comfortable and efficient homes that are low-carbon, energy-efficient and 
designed for a changing climate. 
• Better diets with a focus on healthy and sustainable alternatives to the highest-
carbon foods. 
• Sustainable economic and employment models that better support health and well-
being.  
Achieving the UK’s target of reaching Net Zero by 2050 will necessitate transformational 
changes that have potential to generate significant health benefits in the near term, 
including via improved air quality, better diets, increased levels of physical activity, 
improved building standards and better work-life balance. 
 
Health equity: the fair distribution of health  
 
The health benefits of mitigation and adaptation measures will be maximised if they are 
designed to reach the people facing the greatest disadvantage. However, this is not 
inevitable. Decisions made in all Government departments have implications for health, 
health equity, and climate change.  
 
Action to improve health equity can be consistent with measures to reduce GHG 
emissions, but this requires careful consideration of who benefits and who pays for 
different policy measures: the costs should not be unfairly borne by people on low 
incomes, who bear least responsibility for the emissions that cause climate change. A 
failure to deliver a just transition would risk exacerbating the health inequality that 
already exists in the UK. 
 
Meanwhile, policy measures that widen inequalities should be mitigated via greater 
redistribution of benefits. Minimising health inequalities will require systemic changes to 
enable and support all of the UK population to benefit from uptake of active travel, 
sustainable diets and energy efficiency measures, among others. 
 
275 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Factoring health equity effects into policies requires a more nuanced approach to both 
mitigation and adaptation: for example, home energy efficiency measures must also 
benefit indoor air quality and temperature, and reach those most exposed to 
temperature extremes and indoor air pollution; reducing meat and dairy consumption 
needs to involve substitution with healthy, low-carbon alternatives that are affordable 
and accessible; and decarbonisation of transport must involve low pollution and safe 
forms of transport that are preferably active and, at the very least, accessible to all. 
 
Recommendations for Government 
 
The Group’s headline recommendations for the UK Government to maximise the health 
impacts of meeting the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero target are: 
 
• Health-equity-in-all-policies approach. The UK Government should avoid increasing 
health and economic inequalities by ensuring the costs of measures to mitigate 
climate change are distributed progressively and that the benefits reach those who 
have the potential to be most positively impacted. The aim should be to reduce 
health inequalities and to advance health equity, for example by applying a health 
equity impact assessment to legislation, including the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
• Support a just energy transition that minimises air pollution from all sources. Continue 
to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and accelerate the transition to clean energy 
sources with decarbonisation of power generation and industrial, commercial and 
domestic energy. 
• Design and retrofit homes to be energy efficient, climate resilient and healthy. The 
dual need to reduce domestic CO2 emissions whilst building and retrofitting healthy 
and climate-resilient homes requires a fine balance of interventions that will depend 
on the age, design and location of homes. New building standards should be revised 
to become near-zero or zero-carbon with flexibility to adapt to local environmental 
needs. 
• Build a sustainable and healthy food system. Enable a wider range of national and 
local powers to shape food systems, and combine these with the resources and 
statutory duties to support the transition to healthier and more sustainable diets. 
• Develop a transport system that promotes active travel and road safety, and which 
minimises pollution. A transport system that is accessible to all and which maximises 
the physical and mental health benefits of active and decarbonised transport will 
require a range of policy interventions to encourage walking and cycling, more local 
journeys, the use of public transport and ride-sharing, and to reduce traffic. 
Electrification of transport will also play a necessary role in reducing transport-related 
CO2 emissions, but continued private vehicle dependence does not constitute 
behaviour change towards more active and inclusive forms of travel, and will 
continue to be a significant source of harmful particulate matter. 
• Develop healthy and sustainable models of work. Prioritise the health and well-being 
of citizens and environmental sustainability in economic recovery/growth policies. 
Shift from measuring economic success in terms of GDP to prioritising a well-being 
approach. Support more inclusive local economic growth and shift towards circular 
economy principles. 
Source: CCC Advisory Group on Health (2020) Sustainable Health Equity: Achieving a Net Zero UK. 
 
 
 
Chapter 5: Investment, costs and benefits of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
276 
c) Environment and biodiversity benefits 
 
Natural capital is difficult to quantify, but economists and citizens are clear that it 
has a value. The pathways outlined in this report contribute to greater biodiversity, 
water quality and air quality. Reducing emissions from land use and agriculture 
could deliver annual co-benefits of £0.6 billion in 2050 in our Balanced Pathway, 
covering recreational benefits of creating new woodland, improved air quality, 
improved health from increased physical activity and flood alleviation. These will 
continue to rise after 2050.  
 
Other benefits such as improved soil health and water quality and greater 
biodiversity could also be important but are not included as there is insufficient 
evidence to quantify their impact.18 
• 
Restoration of peatlands. Peatland restoration increases the likelihood that 
upland peat biodiversity could withstand shifts to the hotter, drier conditions 
we can expect over the rest of this century. It also brings benefits for air and 
water quality, biodiversity and habitat creation and further climate change 
adaptation benefits (flood alleviation and water quality).  
• 
Increased woodland and hedgerow planting. Increasing woodland and 
hedgerows results in benefits to biodiversity through habitat creation (so 
long as mixed planting is followed) and can help towards flood alleviation. 
Many trees can also bring air quality benefits. More woodland close to 
populated areas would also bring recreational benefits, while increased 
tree cover in agricultural land could improve animal welfare (providing 
shade for livestock on hot days). 
• 
Changes to farming practices. Practices that optimise the efficient use of 
nitrogen on cropland and grassland can reduce N2O emissions on 
agricultural soils. There are also air quality improvements to be gained from 
a reduction in ammonia. If farms are located near water courses, these 
measures can help reduce water pollution with benefits for water quality, 
biodiversity, habitat condition, and resilience to climate change. 
• 
Increasing adaptation to climate change. The changes to land use 
proposed in this report can also help the UK adapt to impacts of climate 
change. Greater forest cover has been shown to protect from severe 
flooding for example. 
 
d) International benefits 
 
Chapter 6 sets out the international basis for our recommended Sixth Carbon 
Budget. As we demonstrate in that chapter, the UK is well-placed to be a global 
leader on climate change as it becomes an increasingly important geopolitical 
issue and as the UK seeks to re-define its position outside the European Union. 
 
The UK was the first country to pass over-arching climate legislation (the Climate 
Change Act), it was the first member of the G20 to adopt a Net Zero target and it 
has the most rapid historical reductions in emissions in the G20. 
 
Reinforcing that leadership position with a strong Sixth Carbon Budget and 
accompanying nationally-determined contribution to the Paris Agreement as part 
of an ambitious package as host of the next UN climate talks and President of the 
G7, can help the UK to unlock potential economic, reputational and diplomatic 
opportunities.  
 
Actions to reduce emissions 
from land-use and agriculture 
could deliver annual benefits 
of £0.6 billion from recreational 
benefits, air quality 
improvements, flood 
alleviation and increased 
physical activity.  
The UK is well placed to be a 
global leader on climate 
change – an increasingly 
important geopolitical issue.  
277 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1 Financial Times (2020) Record surge in redundancies pushes UK unemployment to 4.8% 
2 Office of National Statistics figure’s (2020) GDP monthly estimates  
3 CCC (2020) 2020 Progress Report to Parliament 
4 CCC expert advisory group on costs and benefits (2019, 2020) Net Zero – The UK’s contribution to 
stopping climate change, 2020 Progress Report to Parliament 
5 E.g. Race to Zero, UN 
6 CCC (2020) Net Zero – The UK’s contribution to stopping climate change 
7 Global CCS institute (2019) New wave of CCS activity: Ten large-scale projects announced 
8 For simplicity, our calculations classify all costs of renewable electricity as investment costs. 
9 CCC expert advisory group on Net Zero finance (2020) The Road to Net Zero Finance 
10 The World Bank (2020) United Kingdom capital investment, percent of GDP  
11 Energy UK (2019) Energy in the UK  
12 Based on a comparison of 2017-19 to 2007-09 and 1997-99 to strip out year-to-year fluctuations 
and the effects of the financial crisis (which led to a sharp drop in spending from 2010). 
13 BEIS figures (2019) 
14 UCL, Carbon Trust (2020) Policy, innovation and cost reduction in UK offshore wind 
15 HMRC (2020) COVID-19 statistics 
16 CCC (2020) 2020 Progress Report to Parliament 
17 Guardian (2020) UK’s first car battery ‘gigafactory’ to be built by two startups 
18 CCC (2020) Land-use policies for a Net Zero UK 
19 CCC expert advisory group on health (2020) Sustainable health equity: achieving a Net Zero UK  
20 CCC (2019) UK housing: Fit for the future?  
 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
278 
A just transition to the Sixth 
Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
 
 
1. Jobs and the Just Transition 
282 
2. Competitiveness 
291 
3. Fuel poverty, energy bills and other household costs 
295 
4. Fiscal circumstances 
304 
 
   
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
280 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Fairness is fundamental to public support and must be embedded throughout 
policy. Only a transition that is perceived as fair, and where people, places and 
communities are well-supported, will succeed. UK Government policy, including on 
skills and jobs, must join up with local, regional and devolved policy on the just 
transition. Vulnerable people must be protected from the costs of the transition 
and benefits should be shared broadly. 
 
This chapter considers the aspects of a just transition to Net Zero in the UK. We 
consider jobs and competitiveness, and we consider the impacts for households, 
including potential impacts on energy bills and fuel poverty. Costs must be fairly 
shared in the transition, so this chapter also considers the implications for the public 
finances. Our analysis is based on the scenarios we set out in Chapters 2 and 3 to 
meet the Sixth Carbon Budget goal of reducing emissions by 78% by 2035 relative 
to 1990 on the path to Net Zero by 2050. 
 
Our key conclusions are: 
• 
A strategy for a just transition is required. Across many areas, including 
energy bills and regional employment, fairness is already an issue. The 
transition to Net Zero will require a shift of hundreds of thousands of workers 
into low-carbon roles, as well as large numbers shifting out of high-carbon 
roles, which could be in different places and use different skills. Navigating 
this transition must start now and will require effective plans, widespread 
public involvement and an embedding of the principle of fairness 
throughout climate policy. Regional and local considerations are vital. 
• 
The transition brings many benefits for UK households. By 2035, in our 
scenarios, people’s homes will be better insulated, their cars will be 
cheaper to drive, they will have cleaner air, quieter streets, more access to 
green spaces and more opportunities to improve their health. Policy should 
aim to share these benefits broadly across the population. 
• 
The transition also brings risks of uneven costs. In the long term, energy 
costs and energy bills are expected to fall significantly. However, in the 
coming decade our scenarios involve further increases in electricity costs 
before these begin to fall. Although improvements to energy efficiency 
could largely offset these costs they should not be automatically added to 
energy bills, which is a regressive approach. Continuing to add climate 
policy costs primarily to electricity prices, but not gas prices, adversely 
affects particular groups (those with electric heating) and undermines the 
case for electrification, which plays a major role in meeting the Sixth 
Carbon Budget. 
• 
Policies must provide a level playing field where competitiveness is a 
concern.  It is clearly possible to deliver the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net 
Zero without carbon leakage, provided a suitable policy package is in 
place. Sectors at risk of carbon leakage must be supported through the 
transition, initially with taxpayer-funded subsidies. Longer term policy should 
move away from subsidies towards an international level playing field, for 
example by using product standards or carbon border tariffs. Work should 
start now on these options, for example by developing better metrics of 
carbon-intensity and building an international consensus on the need for 
border carbon adjustments. 
 
281 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Up to around £4-7 billion of extra annual Exchequer funding is needed by 
2030 for low-carbon solutions. Alongside extension of funding from existing 
schemes (including the temporary Green Homes Grant scheme), this could 
provide the initial support required for deep industrial decarbonisation and 
for retrofitting the UK’s buildings without increasing household energy bills. 
Additional funding for low-carbon electricity is also likely to be required 
initially, though this is currently levied on bills. However, the vast majority of 
the required investment programme will be funded and delivered privately. 
Offsetting revenues could be raised by greater use of carbon taxes, 
especially for sectors like aviation that are currently under-taxed and where 
equity concerns are less present. 
 
This chapter is in four sections: 
1. Jobs and the Just Transition 
2. Competitiveness 
3. Fuel poverty, energy bills and other household costs 
4. Fiscal circumstances 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
282 
1. Jobs and the Just Transition 
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) define a just transition as being a 
transition towards an environmentally sustainable economy that is well managed 
and contributes to the goals of decent work for all, social inclusion and the 
eradication of poverty.1 
 
It is often strongly associated with the implications for jobs and employment. As 
well as jobs (the focus of this section), we consider impacts on energy bills and 
other impacts on consumers (section 2) and the competitiveness of particular 
industries (section 3), as required under the Climate Change Act. Where possible 
we consider regional and localised effects. 
 
The transition to Net Zero will need more of some jobs and fewer of others. There is 
no reason to think that the total number of jobs should be any lower than in a high-
carbon world. In fact the balance of spending identified in Chapter 5, with a shift 
from expenditure on imported fossil fuels towards higher UK investment if anything 
points to the potential for higher overall employment, at least in the near term 
during the economic recovery. But the shift in jobs from some current areas to 
others brings a significant transition risk. 
 
The transition will affect the whole of the UK, with impacts differing across regions, 
sectors and workers. The risk of negative localised impacts must be a particular 
focus for policy. A strategy for the just transition is required to ensure no group is left 
behind. 
 
This section considers:  
a) Existing low-carbon jobs in the UK and historical changes in energy jobs 
b) New job opportunities in a low-carbon future 
c) Pressure on existing jobs in a low-carbon future 
d) Regional aspects of the just transition 
e) Support for low-carbon jobs and a just transition 
 
a) Existing low-carbon jobs in the UK and historical changes in 
energy jobs 
 
The Office for National Statistics (ONS) estimates that 225,000 people are currently 
employed in the UK’s low-carbon technology and renewable energy economy, 
representing around 0.7% of the total UK workforce, with an additional 5,000-10,000 
jobs being added each year.2 
• 
Around three quarters of these jobs are in energy efficient products and 
services, with an additional 14% in the renewable energy sector, electric 
vehicle production (7%) and nuclear power (6%). 
• 
Of these jobs, almost 40% are involved in direct manufacturing of low-
carbon technologies, and an additional 37% in constructing infrastructures 
to support low-carbon technologies. 
• 
Additional jobs exist in the supply chains of companies directly involved in 
these industries, therefore overall employment in low-carbon industries will 
be higher.  
Low-carbon jobs already 
make up nearly 1% of all jobs 
in the UK. 
283 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Increasingly jobs in other sectors will have a low-carbon remit. For example, 
financial services will be required to finance and insure the growing capital 
investment in the UK’s transition to Net Zero. Others have noted opportunities for 
data and digital technology to play an important role in a low-carbon future, with 
associated jobs.3 Separately, as businesses commit to Net Zero targets, purchasing 
managers will increasingly need to take sustainability into account.  
 
Until now, the UK’s transition to Net Zero has been highly concentrated in the 
electricity sector, with important positive localised impacts. New jobs have been 
created in the renewables sector, but some jobs have been lost in coal. 
Separately, jobs have been lost in the oil and gas sector due to global shifts.   
• 
Jobs in manufacturing of renewables have led to a boost in employment in 
certain regions. For example, the Siemens Gamesa and ABP investments in 
offshore wind manufacturing in Hull have been attributed with reducing 
unemployment benefit claims by close to 60% and increasing Gross Value 
Added (GVA) in the region.4  
• 
However the UK’s industrial policy has also been criticised for not 
maximising investment in renewable energy supply chains in the UK, for the 
renewables that have been installed to date.5 Partly to address this, the UK 
Government is now, as part of its ‘sector deal’, working with the UK 
renewables industry to ensure that at least 60% of the money spent on 
offshore wind farms goes to UK companies and workers.6  
• 
Over the past decade fossil fuel power stations have closed, or reduced in 
output. The Scottish Just Transition Commission notes the success of a 
Government initiated taskforce in managing the immediate threat of job 
losses resulting from the closure of Longannet coal power station, but that 
more could have been done to bring local community into discussions.7 
Further research should be encouraged into similar closures in the rest of 
the UK. 
• 
A prolonged downturn in the UK’s oil and gas sector has seen employment 
drop by 35% between 2013 and 2019.8 This, compounded by regular 
volatility in the sector including as a result of COVID-19, has led to job 
insecurity and mandatory pay cuts.9   
• 
The UK’s efforts to transition workers away from coal production, in the 
1970s and 1980s have been criticised for providing new, replacement, jobs 
that were not sufficiently well paid.10  
 
All these scales are also relevant for the future – from the sector-level across the 
economy through to individual towns and installations. 
 
b) New job opportunities in a low-carbon future 
 
The opportunities for jobs growth have, to date, largely been focused on 
deploying renewable electricity. Countries that manufacture wind turbines and 
solar panels have been able to export these technologies to a growing global 
market. Jobs in installing and servicing wind and solar have expanded locally. 
Renewables jobs are likely to continue growing as the world decarbonises and 
electrifies.11  
 
The next phase of decarbonisation will go beyond renewable electricity towards 
electric vehicles, low-carbon hydrogen, carbon capture usage and storage 
(CCUS) and, particularly in the UK, buildings decarbonisation. Low-carbon industrial 
products will be in increasing demand across the world. 
 
Lessons can be learned from 
how low-carbon jobs have 
been created, and how high 
carbon jobs have been 
affected in the past. 
Jobs will be needed not just in 
renewables, but in low-carbon 
hydrogen, electric vehicles, 
CCS, buildings retrofits and 
more. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
284 
The scenarios we set out in Chapters 2 and 3, and the profiles in Chapter 5 for 
investment and operating costs give indications of potential job impacts, but 
outcomes will depend on the balance of UK provision and imports. For some 
sectors, like buildings, it is clear that the balance of new jobs must be in the UK. 
• 
Buildings. Our scenarios involve an additional annual investment in UK 
buildings of over £10 billion per year. The Construction Industry Training 
Board (CITB) modelled the employment requirements to deliver a 
programme of housing retrofit in line with our Balanced Pathway. Their 
analysis suggests that the energy efficiency programme in the 2020s and 
following low-carbon heat programme would require an additional 
workforce of over 200,000 new full-time equivalent roles from the late 2020s 
through to 2050 (Figure 6.1). More roles may be required in the heat pump 
and other supply chains if those are UK based. 
• 
Low-carbon energy. Our scenarios involve additional annual investment in 
the electricity sector and energy networks growing to around £20 billion by 
2030. Work done for National Grid on the energy system employment 
opportunities in a transition to Net Zero suggest up to 400,000 low-carbon 
jobs could be needed over the next 30 years, including jobs in buildings 
retrofit. This is comparable to direct employment in the UK’s energy sector 
of 144,000 today. 260,000 will be in new roles, while the remainder will be 
replacing those who have left the workforce. Importantly, they note the 
opportunity for these jobs to be spread across all regions of the UK. 12 
• 
Transport. Our scenarios involve around a £10 billion increase in annual 
investment in the transport sector, largely from the extra upfront cost we 
assume for low-carbon vehicles.  LSE, in a recent study, note an opportunity 
for up to 80,000 UK jobs in manufacturing of electric vehicles and batteries. 
However, without Government action to encourage investment in this 
sector, they suggest EV manufacturing could move elsewhere.13 
 
• 
Manufacturing. There may also be employment opportunities for the UK 
from exports if it becomes a market-leader in the production of low-carbon 
technologies. The Energy Innovation Needs Assessment (EINAs) recently 
conducted by BEIS assessed these opportunities and found innovations in 
low-carbon manufacturing technologies including CCUS could support up 
to 80,000 jobs in the UK by 2050.14 These jobs would also be high quality, 
with wages above the UK average.* 
 
The EINAs also highlighted sectors where the UK already has a comparative 
advantage compared to other countries as being offshore wind, smart systems 
and CCUS, complemented by strength in engineering services that can be 
applied to CCUS, hydrogen and bioenergy.15  
 
The macroeconomic modelling we set out in Chapter 4 also provides some insights 
on employment effects. It identifies boosts to the utilities sector and to 
manufacturing and construction, while fewer jobs may be needed in oil and gas 
production and aviation. It also identifies potential boosts for employment in the 
broader economy (e.g. services) resulting from the economic stimulus effect of the 
major investment programme in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway. 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Note that the EINAs only consider the jobs and GVA that could be provided in the production of technologies, 
rather than in the operation of these technologies (for example jobs/GVA provided in the production of cement 
kilns, rather than in the cement sector itself). 
285 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 6.1 Employment in low-carbon heating  
and energy efficiency (2020-2050) 
 
Source: CITB (2020) Building Skills for Net Zero (draft report); CCC analysis. 
Notes: We have applied a two-year rolling average to smooth annual variation. 
 
c) Pressure on existing jobs in a low-carbon future 
 
A transition to Net Zero will also reduce demand for certain high-carbon services 
and technologies, such as fossil fuel extraction, processing and distribution, 
aviation, fossil fuel machinery and livestock and dairy. This could see jobs in some 
key sectors significantly affected, though in each area there will also be new 
employment opportunities:  
• 
The UK’s oil and gas sector is likely to be heavily affected in a Net Zero 
economy by 2050 due to falling international demand for oil and gas. Oil 
and gas production from the UK Continental Shelf is already projected to 
reduce over coming decades. Our Balanced Pathway sees an 85% 
reduction in UK oil demand and a 70% reduction in gas demand. Though 
some oil and gas will continue to be used, lower production costs 
internationally may favour imports of these fuels over domestic production. 
Opportunities in this sector could involve a shift towards offshore 
renewables, CCUS and hydrogen, with measures to manage the carbon 
footprint of imported fuels. 
 
Industries that are 
currently high carbon will 
need to be engaged in a 
transition to Net Zero. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
286 
• 
The UK’s automotive industry largely produces conventional fossil-fuelled 
vehicles for export*.16 The sector’s nearly 450,000 workers will need to be 
engaged in a transition to electric vehicles that is already underway, in the 
UK and globally. Falling demand for fossil fuelled vehicles, resulting from a 
transition to electric vehicles, is likely to reduce the number of jobs 
available in manufacturing and servicing these vehicles in the UK. In our 
Balanced Pathway we estimate a reduced spend on vehicle maintenance 
of around £7 billion annually by 2050. The UK already produces electric 
vehicles, and opportunities exist for the UK to have a large share of future 
electric vehicle, and potentially battery, production.17 Broader economic 
circumstances, including the UK’s future trading relationships, will clearly be 
important. 
• 
Our scenarios suggest growth in flying may need to be limited, or levels 
decrease, from pre-COVID levels. Therefore jobs in UK aviation and 
aeronautics sectors could be impacted. 
• 
Income to livestock and dairy farms could be affected if meat and dairy 
consumption falls by the 20-50% envisaged in our scenarios. The UK’s farms 
and their 450,000 workers will need to be engaged and supported in the 
transition to low-carbon farming practices.18 The Government’s 
Environmental Land Management Scheme (ELMS), the UK’s successor to 
the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy, will be critical.  
– Multiple opportunities exist, including transitioning to plant-
based food (e.g. cereals and legumes), growing bioenergy 
crops, lower-carbon livestock production and receiving income 
for low-carbon land management (such as increased tree-
planting or peatland restoration, much of which in our scenarios 
occurs on land released from raising livestock).  
– For farmers, raising awareness and the provision of training on 
the adoption of sustainable management practices is crucial.  
• 
Demand for manufacturing of some products or materials would likely 
reduce within the more circular economy represented in our scenarios. This 
could lead to a shift of some manufacturing towards recycling-based 
manufacturing and re-use-based services. However, the increased 
demand for materials for the major investment programme required is likely 
to more than offset this. 
 
The transition will also require some industries, such as manufacturing, to change 
the technologies, fuels or processes they use to costlier ones, while they continue 
to provide the same type of products or services. This could impact their 
competitiveness and affect jobs (while causing ‘carbon leakage’) if Government 
does not enable companies to operate on a level playing field with their 
international competitors. Therefore, Government should ensure a level playing 
field, where required, to maintain and potentially grow low-carbon UK industry 
(section 3). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* In 2019, 1.3 million cars were built in the UK, 1.1 million of which were exported, LSE (2020) Seizing sustainable growth 
opportunities from zero emission passenger vehicles in the UK. 
The Government can ensure its 
successor to the EU’s farming 
subsidy scheme rewards 
farmers for environmental 
gains. 
287 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
d) Regional aspects of the just transition 
 
The jobs opportunities and challenges of the low-carbon transition will vary 
regionally. Regional changes to manufacturing jobs are particularly important 
because the sector tends to be highly concentrated in specific regions (Figure 6.2) 
and the jobs often pay more than those in other sectors in these regions. In some 
regions (e.g. North East Yorkshire), manufacturing provides nearly 20% of all full-time 
equivalent jobs, and it can be even more important at smaller scales (e.g. one 
third of all jobs at some local authority levels). 19 
 
Importantly, many of the regions where manufacturing jobs are concentrated are 
also those where jobs are likely to be required in the low-carbon hydrogen, CCS 
and renewable energy industries. 
 
The UK already has high levels of regional inequality compared to other OECD 
countries20 and transitions are already occurring in the UK that affect regions in 
different ways. Unless carefully managed, a transition to Net Zero could 
exacerbate these inequalities. Besides jobs, the costs and benefits of the transition 
will also differ across regions. 
• 
The deindustrialisation that has occurred in the UK to date has already left 
some regions disproportionately worse off. 21 For example, IDDRI notes the 
limited success of efforts to transition former coal mining communities to 
new jobs, noting that though new jobs have been created, they have 
often been lower paid than previous jobs in the region and high levels of 
worklessness still prevail. 22 
• 
The costs of the transition may be higher than average in some regions of 
the country. For example areas with older, energy inefficient housing could 
face higher energy bills. Rural areas off the gas grid, who typically pay 
more for heating fuel, have more to gain from a switch to low-carbon 
heating. Current and future transport infrastructure can limit the ability of 
the local population to walk, cycle or use public transport, and may affect 
the opportunity for and costs of running an electric vehicle. Relative wealth 
will also be important, including for the ability to fund changes locally.  
• 
Many of the benefits of a transition to Net Zero will be felt at the local level. 
For example, a transition to electric vehicles, alongside an increase in 
active travel will lead to a decrease in local air pollution, benefitting health. 
A shift to healthy diets, and improved quality of housing is expected to lead 
to lower costs for the health service. An increase in tree-planting and urban 
green spaces will provide more green recreational space.  
 
Decarbonisation strategies will need to be tailored to local circumstances and 
local communities. Maximising the economic and employment opportunities 
arising from the transition will require targeting new investment towards areas that 
are likely to be the most impacted. This should be tied to a dialogue between 
local, regional and national Governments, alongside a public engagement 
strategy that gives local people a say in how a transition to Net Zero will affect their 
area.  
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing jobs are highly 
concentrated in specific 
regions of the UK.  
A just transition will need to 
consider how costs and 
benefits can balanced across 
regions.  
Opportunities also exist to 
target investment towards 
poorer regions. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
288 
Figure 6.2 Regional employment provided by 
manufacturing and construction 
 
Source: ONS (2020) Labour Force Survey and the UK Business Register and Employment Survey. 
 
e) Support for low-carbon jobs and a Just Transition 
 
Support for low-carbon jobs 
A low-carbon economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic can provide 
opportunities for skilled jobs in low-carbon industries such as building retrofits 
including low-carbon heat installation, tree-planting, peatland restoration and 
green infrastructure, and low-carbon energy.  
Once established, a low-carbon recovery can form the basis of a longer-term 
approach to ensure that low-carbon investment in the UK leads to low-carbon 
jobs. That approach should include:  
• 
Sector deals in the offshore wind, and nuclear industries have ensured that 
the industry targets a minimum level of UK content in the production, 
installation and servicing of offshore wind farms.  
• 
Commitment to large future low-carbon markets can encourage 
investment in UK manufacturing. For example, Siemens cites the UK 
Government’s support for offshore wind as a key reason behind opening a 
blade factory in Hull, alongside active Government support and co-
investment in upgrading port facilities.23 
• 
Investment in skills, including the learning of science, technology, 
engineering and maths (STEM) subjects in education. 
A low-carbon recovery from 
the COVID-19 pandemic can 
be the starting point for a 
wider programme of low-
carbon jobs. 
289 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Reskilling and retraining programmes for workers in high carbon industries. 
Particular skills gaps, such as those identified by the Committee in heat 
pump and energy efficiency installation, should be identified and action to 
address these prioritised. The ability of a decarbonised UK manufacturing 
sector to compete in global markets is dependent on having a labour 
force with the requisite skills, not only in manufacturing products and 
materials, but also engineering, procurement and construction 
management services. 
• 
Developing policy to provide favourable investment conditions. Policies 
that provide businesses with clarity and confidence are vital and can be 
supplemented by use of other policies, such as business rates, to 
encourage low-carbon investment.  
• 
Investment in research and innovation, and in translating that to effective 
business models.  
• 
Trade-deals can be used to ensure that low-carbon industries in the UK 
maintain their competitiveness with industries abroad, maintaining 
opportunities for workers in the UK. 
 
In developing its approach to low-carbon jobs, Government should use these tools, 
work with industry and collaborate with devolved as well as local Government. 
 
Supporting a just transition 
 
Scotland’s Just Transition Commission was appointed to advise on a Net Zero 
economy that is fair for all. It has identified four priorities for achieving a just 
transition: 
• 
1) Planning ahead –clear transition plans need to be developed down to 
the sectoral level so that surprises are minimised. Unplanned transitions tend 
to be unjust transitions. 
• 
2) Engagement – people need to be brought into the decision-making 
process and derive a sense of ownership of the Net Zero project.  
• 
3) Bringing equity to the heart of climate change policies. Climate policies 
need to be systematically screened for their impact on vulnerable and 
excluded groups and for the opportunity to address existing inequalities. 
• 
4) Start now. The transition is already underway both in the UK and around 
the world. A strategy that recognises this can put the UK at the forefront of 
addressing fairness in a transition to Net Zero.  
 
For the UK, the Treasury’s Net Zero Review will be the first comprehensive look at 
elements of the just transition to Net Zero. It will consider how the transition to Net 
Zero will be funded, and where the costs will fall. It will assess:  
• 
The range of choices for how households, businesses and the taxpayer 
could contribute towards different elements of the transition to Net Zero. 
• 
Mechanisms to create an equitable balance of contributions. 
• 
Opportunities for economic growth as we transition to a green economy. 
• 
The trade-offs between cost, competitiveness, effects on consumers and 
impacts on the taxpayer. 
 
 
The transition to Net Zero is 
already underway, so a 
strategy for a just transition is 
needed now.  
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
290 
The Treasury’s funding review will be a crucial first step in demonstrating that strong 
leadership and coordination at the centre of Government can ensure the action 
to deliver Net Zero is delivered in a fair and equitable way. Its interim report was 
due to be published around the same time as this report, but had not been at the 
time of writing.  
The Treasury’s final report of their Net Zero Review, due in Spring 2021 should:  
• 
Develop a plan for funding decarbonisation and review the distribution of 
costs for businesses, households and the Exchequer. This should set out the 
main areas where action and funding will be required, the principles on 
which the distribution of costs should be determined and clarity over how 
costs will be allocated. 
• 
Consider near-term as well as long-term decarbonisation funding needs 
and policy implications. The Government cannot make funding 
commitments that bind future Governments, but the review can set out 
principles to inform the scale and nature of long-term Government funding 
and make concrete proposals for action and funding over the next five to 
ten years, or at least be accompanied by a spending review or budget 
which does the same. 
• 
Give due weight to issues of fairness, including assessing:  
– Where the costs of policies are likely to fall and how they can be 
mitigated where vulnerable groups or industries are likely to be 
affected. This should include adverse distributional impacts of current 
policies.  
– Impacts on jobs and job quality and how to manage them, including 
consideration of reskilling and retraining.  
– Plans to monitor and to report publicly on progress towards achieving 
a fair transition and protecting vulnerable groups. 
– The benefits of Net Zero and where they fall, which will have 
implications for individuals, specific regions and the Exchequer. 
 
We will review the Treasury’s final publication as part of our 2020 Progress Report to 
Parliament. Managing the just transition will be an ongoing process and must 
continue beyond the report’s publication. A full strategy is needed. 
 
 
 
 
The Review should deliver a 
plan for funding 
decarbonisation that is fair.  
 
The Treasury’s Net Zero review 
can be the starting point for a 
Just Transition strategy for the 
UK. 
 
291 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
2. Competitiveness 
For climate action to be effective, it must reduce global emissions, not just UK 
emissions. Emissions reductions from industry must result from decarbonising the 
UK’s own manufacturing and wider industrial base, rather than ‘offshoring’ it to 
other countries (i.e. 'carbon leakage'). It is vital therefore to consider 
competitiveness. 
 
In our scenarios UK industry is decarbonised, not offshored. Our assessment of the 
policy options (in consultation with researchers and industry representatives) 
supports a clear conclusion that it is possible to deliver those scenarios without 
carbon leakage, provided a suitable policy package is in place. This section 
summarises some of the policy options, with more details in our accompanying 
Policy report. 
 
a) Context and approach 
 
The context for action to reduce emissions from industry is shifting, with significantly 
more climate action emerging internationally than just a year ago, when we 
recommended that the UK adopt its Net Zero 2050 target.  
• 
Policy is developing internationally with a similar objective of decarbonising 
industry without offshoring. For example, the EU plans to introduce border 
carbon adjustments (BCAs) from 2023. The European Commission plans to 
bring forward legislation for BCAs in Q2 2021 as part of its European Green 
Deal.24 It plans to roll out BCAs from 2023, starting in a few sectors, reported 
to be cement, steel and electricity.25 The incoming US Biden administration 
has also committed to a carbon adjustment fee on imported products. 
• 
Businesses and sector bodies have also made new commitments. For 
example, the European Cement Association set a Net Zero target for 2050.  
• 
Wider adoption of Net Zero targets internationally, including by countries 
with large industrial sectors like China and South Korea, is providing a 
stronger signal that multinational industry will need to decarbonise at some 
stage, whichever country they are based in.  
• 
New projects and demonstrations are emerging. For example, the Hybrit 
iron & steel project in Sweden is testing the use of hydrogen instead of 
coking coal to produce low-carbon steel, and the NorCem cement factory 
in Norway is close to receiving a final investment decision for a full-scale 
CCS project.26   
 
We also have a better understanding of where the opportunities to reduce 
emissions lie across the emitting industrial sectors, including the roles of resource 
and energy efficiency, electrification, use of low-carbon hydrogen and 
application of carbon capture and storage (CCS). 
• 
We estimate the annualised cost of decarbonising the manufacturing and 
fuel supply sectors with these measures to be around £3.5 billion per year by 
2035 and £5.5 billion per year by 2050. 
• 
The scenarios we set out in this report, backed up by our new research (as 
described in Chapter 3, sections 3 and 5, are designed to ensure that 
industry has time to decarbonise.  
A global transition to low-
carbon manufacturing and 
construction is underway. 
For climate action to be 
effective, it must reduce 
global emissions, not just UK 
emissions.  
The costs of decarbonising 
manufacturing and construction 
is smaller than other high 
emitting sectors, though still 
significant. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
292 
That includes time to roll out new infrastructure (e.g. a CCS network), for 
supply chains to scale up and for effective policy to be developed and 
implemented in consultation with industry. 
 
We note that global analyses have also identified the potential to decarbonise 
global industry at relatively low cost and on similar timescales to our UK scenarios: 
• 
The global pathways we set out in Chapter 7 involve deep decarbonisation 
of industry by 2050, with significant progress, particularly in developed 
countries like the UK, in earlier years. 
• 
Global analyses have identified potential to reduce industrial emissions to 
Net Zero. For example, the Energy Transitions Commission set out pathways 
to reduce emissions from cement, steel, chemicals and aluminium to Net 
Zero by 2050 in developed countries and by 2060 globally, as part of an 
overall transition to Net Zero at a cost of less than 0.5% of global GDP.27 
 
The Committee was particularly careful to consider the needs of industries that 
could be at risk of carbon leakage (based on the EU’s list for industries at risk) and 
the policy options to support these industries in the Net Zero transition: 
• 
We commissioned new work from the Energy Systems Catapult to evaluate 
carbon policies to mitigate leakage and alleviate competitiveness 
concerns. 
• 
We asked the University of Leeds to undertake independent research to 
evaluate a range of industrial decarbonisation policy options and how 
these might be combined to deliver the emissions reductions required, 
while avoiding carbon leakage. 
• 
We undertook a deep-dive review of the potential role of product 
standards to support deep decarbonisation of industry with an 
independent consultant.28  
• 
We convened an industry policy steering group that included trade 
representatives from relevant industrial sectors (e.g. steel, cement, paper, 
fertiliser), international agencies and policymakers. The group had a series 
of meetings to guide the ESC and Leeds research projects and have 
informed the Committee’s conclusions in this section. 
 
b) Policy to decarbonise industry and maintain competitiveness 
 
Our work has identified various policy options that should be used for reducing 
industry emissions while maintaining competitiveness of UK industry. These would 
help enable costlier deep decarbonisation actions, such as electrification, use of 
hydrogen and application of CCS. We would expect mechanisms to develop over 
time with a transition away from costs initially being borne by taxpayers. 
• 
Free allowance allocation in a UK Emissions Trading System (ETS) would 
continue to provide competitiveness protection for industry, although 
planned cuts to free allowances have left some concerned at the level of 
protection. While free allowances within an ETS can protect 
competitiveness, an ETS alone is unlikely to provide a sufficient incentive to 
enable deep decarbonisation of industry as a) costs for early industrial 
deep decarbonisation deployment will likely come at a premium above 
expected carbon prices b) the uncertainty of the carbon price level adds 
a further risk premium to costs. c) upfront capital support is likely to be 
required by manufacturers that seek very short payback periods (in 
addition to an ongoing carbon price incentive).  
To meet the Paris Agreement, 
industry must decarbonise 
across the world. 
It is possible to decarbonise UK 
industry in line with the 
scenarios in this report without 
leading to carbon leakage or 
offshoring of industry, provided 
a suitable policy package is in 
place  
293 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
If a carbon tax combined with rebates or exemptions is implemented from 
January 2021 instead of a trading system, this is likely further to reduce 
incentives for deep industrial decarbonisation, without further policy. 
• 
Taxpayer funding of industrial deep decarbonisation projects would 
manage competitiveness and bring down project cost of capital. 
Government has consulted on a Contract for Difference scheme to support 
both some capital and operational costs of industrial CCS projects. This, or 
other funding approaches, should be rolled out across further deep 
industrial decarbonisation. Given the estimated costs of our scenarios set 
out in Chapter 5, and that only part of industry is at risk of carbon leakage, 
the required support to decarbonise manufacturers at risk of carbon 
leakage would be around £2-3 billion per year, assuming manufacturers do 
not face additional policy costs on their electricity bills. 
• 
Border carbon tariffs* would raise the price of high-carbon imported goods, 
stopping the need for free allowances and allowing all UK emissions to be 
subject to carbon pricing without compensation for costs not faced by 
international competitors. This could enable carbon pricing to support 
deep decarbonisation in sectors that would otherwise be at risk of carbon 
leakage. It would also send a signal to other manufacturing countries to 
decarbonise their production. Under this approach industry would pay for 
the emissions reductions, which could then be passed through to 
consumers in higher prices without competitiveness impacts.  
• 
Minimum standards applied to imported goods (in line with domestic 
standards) would also allow domestic production to decarbonise without 
threat of being undercut by high-carbon imports. Standards could be 
applied on producers of goods or on purchasers, and applied at the 
primary, intermediary or tertiary product stage. As with border carbon 
tariffs, this would lead to a premium price for low-carbon goods so 
consumers would bear the cost. Standards mandating near-zero-carbon 
intensity may need to be introduced later than the more flexible border 
carbon tariffs. Other formulations of standards may have an earlier role, 
either directly on carbon intensity with partial reductions or indirectly 
through other requirements, or in particular sub-sectors. Public procurement 
may also have a role. 
 
It will be for Government to decide on the appropriate mix of instruments, in 
consultation with the affected industrial sectors. The broad pathway is likely to be a 
transition from subsidised deployment in the near-term towards an international 
level playing field that does not require subsidy in the longer-run, although 
mechanisms such as contracts for difference may still have a role in removing risks 
around carbon pricing. 
 
Work towards the longer-term solution should begin immediately; the substantial 
time it will require to develop these solutions means they are on the critical path to 
decarbonisation. Most pressing is the development of improved metrics for 
carbon-intensity on which border tariffs or standards can be based, along with 
international negotiation and consensus building on these measures. Ultimately 
implementation of standards and tariffs is likely to be product-by-product rather 
than a single over-arching policy – clearly it will be important to ensure consistency 
while respecting specific circumstances. 
 
 
*   These are typically referred to as border carbon adjustments (BCA); however, some stakeholders also use the term 
BCAs to encompass the application of standards at the border, which we treat separately. Therefore, we use the 
Border Carbon Tariff terminology for clarity. 
Government must decide on 
the appropriate mix of 
instruments, in consultation 
with the affected industrial 
sectors.  
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
294 
We note that some of the policies above are more obviously applied to imports to 
provide a level playing field for UK producers, but they could also be applied to UK 
exporters. For example, border tariffs could also involve rebates to exports from UK 
firms that have reduced emissions without full taxpayer support. 
 
While the assessment above focuses on industry, the principles also apply to other 
trade-exposed sectors like agriculture. Future trade deals should ensure that UK 
standards are also applied to imported goods, and a level playing field is provided 
for UK producers operating to high standards. We also note that policies in other 
parts of the economy also affect trade-exposed sectors – it will be important to 
continue policies such as the exemptions and compensations for UK carbon price 
support. 
 
Similarly, for sectors like aviation and shipping, which are inherently international, 
the focus should be on developing international policy approaches (though as we 
set out in Chapter 10, UK influence and UK levers have an important role to play). 
Here, sectoral agreements are already in place (e.g. CORSIA for aviation) or 
possibly emerging (for shipping), but will need to strengthen significantly.  
 
A global shift is beginning, towards low-carbon industrial products. The UK should 
aim to be part of the manufacturing base for those products, and is well-placed 
given our access to plentiful low-cost CO2 storage sites under the North Sea and 
elsewhere, and our history of strong infrastructure provision engineering expertise. 
Government can maximise the UK’s potential by providing a clear and early low-
carbon policy offer to manufacturers. There are challenges in developing policy to 
drive emissions reductions while maintaining competitiveness, but there are also 
opportunities and it is increasingly apparent that the low-carbon path is the most 
likely path to future success for UK industry.  
 
 
 
Other trade exposed sectors, 
such as agriculture, aviation 
and shipping could also be at 
risk of carbon leakage. 
295 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
3. Fuel poverty, energy bills and other household costs   
The Climate Change Act requires us to advise on the likely impacts of our 
recommended budget on fuel poverty. That is part of a wider issue of fairness 
regarding the impact on energy bills, where any increases tend to be regressive. 
Our scenarios also imply broader potential costs and benefits for households.  
 
Our analysis in Chapter 5 demonstrates that our scenarios imply growing and 
enduring savings in operating costs, alongside a major investment programme. To 
2030 the largest cost increases affecting households are in the electricity sector 
and for decarbonising buildings. If these are paid fully through energy bills, then 
bills would rise to 2030 with likely regressive effects. Alternatively, an extension of 
and modest increase in existing Exchequer funding could be sufficient if backed 
by effective policy design. 
 
Large savings are available for household in other areas, most notably in transport 
from the shift to electric cars, and significant benefits are available for health, well-
being and access to the natural environment. However, even in areas where costs 
are likely to fall relative to today, the distribution of costs and savings could create 
both ‘winners’ and ‘losers’ during the transition. 
 
Effective policy design, and continued monitoring and intervention should aim to 
limit increases in costs to those that are able to pay, while sharing the benefits 
broadly.  
 
This section considers 
a) Current energy bills and fuel poverty 
b) Future energy bills and fuel poverty 
c) Wider household costs and benefits 
 
a) Energy bills and fuel poverty 
 
Current energy bills 
 
Ofgem estimate an annual bill for dual-fuel households (using gas for heating and 
electricity for lights and appliances) of £1,170 in 2019. Around £150 of the bill was 
attributed to environmental and social costs, including the cost of low-carbon 
policies.29 
 
The impact of low-carbon policy costs on energy bills is regressive, making up a 
larger proportion of the household income of lower-income groups than higher-
income groups (Figure 6.3). It also makes decarbonisation of heating more difficult 
as most policy costs are currently recovered from use of electricity rather than gas. 
A household switching from a gas boiler to a heat pump for its heating would face 
an extra policy cost of over £100 a year on its energy bill, despite reducing its 
emissions in the process. 
 
The Committee last published a detailed assessment of energy bills in 2017. 30 That 
assessment concluded that improvements in energy efficiency had more than 
offset increased costs of funding low-carbon technologies such that overall bills 
had fallen in real terms since the Climate Change Act was passed in 2008.  
Household gas and electricity 
use has fallen by around 20% 
since 2008, reducing bills.  
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
296 
We expected those offsetting effects to continue in the following years as efficient 
boilers, lights and appliances roll through the stock and as continued low-carbon 
investment adds further to low-carbon policy costs. 
 
Figure 6.3 Low-carbon policy costs as a 
percentage of total household income by 
income groups 
 
 
Source: Owen & Barrett (2019) Reducing inequality resulting from UK low-carbon policy. 
 
Fuel poverty 
 
A household is considered to be fuel poor if it cannot afford to keep its home 
adequately warm at a reasonable cost, given its income (though definitions vary 
across the UK).* Fuel poverty is caused by a combination of low household income, 
high energy requirements and high energy costs, with energy-inefficient housing 
being a key driver. 
 
Current policies are insufficient to tackle fuel poverty, despite significant funds 
nominally targeted at helping people heat their homes: 
• 
Around 10% of English households are considered to be in fuel poverty, 
representing over 2 million households, compared to close to 12% in 2009. 31 
In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland the number of households in fuel 
poverty are significantly higher at 25%, 12% and 42% respectively, due in 
part to using oil or electricity, rather than natural gas, for heating in rural 
areas, as well as differences in regional income.32  
• 
The Energy Company Obligation targets energy efficiency installations 
towards fuel poor households and installs over 150,000 per year.  
 
 
* In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland this is defined as spending more than 10% of income on household fuel use in 
order to maintain a satisfactory heating regime. England uses different definition. See p49 here: 
https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Energy-Prices-and-Bills-Committee-on-Climate-Change-
March-2017.pdf  
Fuel poverty continues to be 
an issue across the UK. Tackling 
this will be an essential part of 
a just transition to Net Zero. 
297 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
This year, an additional £1.5 billion of funding for the Green Homes Grant 
was also introduced, with the scheme available to social landlords, 
alongside targeted funding for fuel poor homes, via local authorities.  
• 
Joint research that we published with the Committee on Fuel Poverty in 
2017 identified potential savings on the Winter Fuel Payment (WFP) and 
Warm Home discount, which are poorly targeted at helping households in 
fuel poverty. We estimate that less than 10% of the combined £2 billion per 
year of these budgets for England is received by households in fuel poverty. 
 
Nationwide rollouts of energy efficiency and low-carbon heating solutions offer an 
opportunity to reduce energy bills for the fuel poor while decarbonising their 
heating, particularly for those off the gas grid. Our scenarios have these homes at 
the forefront of the required low-carbon heating installation programme.   
 
b) Future energy bills and fuel poverty 
 
By 2050 we expect the combined operational cost savings from our scenarios for 
the electricity and buildings sectors to more than offset the extra investment 
requirement for those sectors. That reflects the significant cost reductions expected 
for renewable power generation and their increasing share of the UK generation 
mix. It implies significant potential for lower bills in the long term, particularly 
compared to the current situation where support for historical low-carbon 
investments in the power sector is adding significantly to current energy bills. 
 
Electricity costs and appliance efficiency 
 
However, in the early 2030s, we expect low-carbon electricity investment to 
continue to add costs to energy bills. Improving energy efficiency can continue 
largely to offset these increasing costs in aggregate. 
• 
Costs of low-carbon electricity. Although we expect electricity costs to fall 
in the long run, we first expect costs to rise to 2030. 
• This reflects both the costs of support for low-carbon investment and 
costs of network reinforcement, which is also recovered through 
energy bills, albeit spread over a long period as part of the UK’s 
regulated asset base. Many of the costs have already been 
committed by existing policies. 
• Low-carbon investment in the 2020s includes some more expensive 
options, such as renewables that were contracted several years ago, 
new nuclear power stations that have either agreed a higher price for 
their electricity or that we assume will cost more than renewables, and 
early carbon capture and storage plants that we expect to be 
relatively expensive. Together, this adds costs of up to £9 billion per 
year, peaking in 2030 and falling away by 2040. We expect these to 
add over £100 by 2030 to the average annual energy bill for a typical 
household, though this will depend on policy design (e.g. the 
Government has proposed use of a regulated asset base model for 
future nuclear investments). 
• From the late 2020s the costs of supporting legacy low-carbon 
investments (i.e. renewable generation deployed 15-20 years earlier) 
will begin to end, reducing the £150 policy costs currently levied on 
bills. 
 
Opportunities exist to target 
existing funding better towards 
fuel poor households. 
Support for low-carbon 
electricity is likely to add costs 
to 2030, but fall shortly after.  
 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
298 
• 
Savings from lights, appliances and boilers. In our 2017 energy bills analysis 
we estimated that by 2030 households could save around £125 on average 
each year by replacing appliances, lights and boilers at the end of their 
lives with the latest equivalent models.* Beginning from 2019 instead of 2016 
that implies a potential saving by 2030 of around £100. 
 
However, these costs and savings will not be evenly distributed between 
households. Recovery of the extra costs should be carefully considered – it should 
not be automatically assumed that they will be added to energy bills, given the 
regressive effect of such an approach. In particular continuing to recover costs 
only from electricity bills would adversely affect those with electric heating and 
undermine the attractiveness of electrification. 
 
Paying for low-carbon buildings retrofits 
 
Our analysis in Chapters 3 and 5 (Figure 6.4) identifies an additional investment 
requirement in buildings energy efficiency and low-carbon heating of around £9 
billion each year from the late 2020s through to 2050 to fully decarbonise the 
existing housing stock. This averages at under £10,000 investment per existing 
home. This additional investment delivers an operating cost saving of around £1.5 
billion a year, with an additional £1.2 billion from lighting and appliances savings 
(mentioned above) and on top of savings from improvements to boiler efficiency 
assumed in our baseline. 
 
In our accompanying Policy Report we identify a need for policy costs that are 
currently charged primarily on electricity bills to be rebalanced. That could involve 
moving them to Exchequer spend (in which case energy bills would fall 
substantially, but tax rises may be required), or spreading them more evenly over 
electricity and gas bills (which would have offsetting increases on gas bills and 
decreases on electricity bills). We also identify the importance of standards in 
driving progress, but for such a policy to be seen as fair it is likely that some 
Exchequer support will be needed, for example as grant funding towards the costs 
of investments. 
 
Such an approach can achieve the major upgrade required to the UK’s homes 
without large increases in consumers’ energy bills and with a modest increase 
Exchequer funding. Indeed, policy can be designed to ensure that vulnerable 
customers benefit from lower energy bills, given the lower operating costs resulting 
from improvements in energy efficiency of homes and heating systems.  
• 
Low-income households. Our scenarios meet the Government fuel poverty 
target to improve all fuel poor owner-occupied homes to an Energy 
Performance Certificate rating of ‘C’ by 2030. Investment costs for these 
homes are around £2 billion a year to 2030. This reduces to £1 billion a year 
to 2050 once the 2030 target has been met. These investment costs can 
broadly be covered by existing Government schemes, if current temporary 
schemes are extended or other budgets increased (Box 6.3). Providing the 
remaining funding gap is closed, this will deliver ongoing savings in annual 
energy bills for fuel poor homes of around £70 from 2030 on average. 
• 
Other households. Our scenarios involve investment rising to £7 billion a year 
for non-fuel-poor households by 2030. The Government has already 
proposed policies to pass some of these through (e.g. to landlords through 
the private-rented sector minimum standards, though some may then be 
recovered through rents).  
 
 
* These estimates do not include bill reductions from improving the energy efficiency of the building (e.g. insulation). 
Some of these costs are 
expected to be offset through 
improved efficiency in 
appliances over the same 
period. 
 
Decarbonising our existing 
homes is associated with 
investment costs of under 
£10,000 per home to 2050. 
It is possible to achieve this 
without large increases to 
energy bills and with a modest 
increase to Exchequer 
funding. This would mean 
people would see the lower 
operating costs from energy 
efficient, low-carbon homes 
reflected in their energy bills. 
This investment delivers cost 
savings of £1.5 billion per year, 
with a further £1.2 billion per 
year savings from lights and 
appliances. 
299 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Funding for current policy programmes could cover remaining investment 
requirements in the long term but would leave an annual gap in the late 
2020s around £3 billion, with offsetting fuel savings of over £1 billion (Box 
6.3). 
 
Figure 6.4 Household investment and operating  
costs, existing homes, Balanced Pathway 
 
Sources: Element Energy for the CCC (2020) Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to 
inform the sixth carbon budget; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Stack columns above the axis show annual additional investment cost. Does not include some operating 
costs for cooking or household and garden machinery (e.g. lawnmowers). 
 
Various options exist for funding the remaining gap of up to £3 billion per year in 
the late 2020s. It may be possible to pass some, or even all, of it through to 
homeowners. That would impose a cost, but could increase the value of their 
homes. It could be funded through further Exchequer support, including extending 
existing schemes. Or it could be recouped through energy bills, in which case they 
will increase. 
 
Good policy design will be vital to ensuring that costs do not escalate beyond 
these estimates. We set out our recommendations in the accompanying Policy 
report, including the need for clear signals and standards, skills policy, information, 
enforcement and local energy planning. 
 
We note that the sum of the support required to decarbonise residential heating is 
considerably lower than that already allocated to decarbonising the power  
sector, within a programme that was widely considered to have been a success.  
 
 
 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
300 
The overall investment programme in the building stock will deliver important 
benefits besides reducing emissions – making homes comfortable and healthier 
places to live in, improving affordability in inefficient stock and tackling fuel 
poverty, and helping make homes resilient to future climate impacts such as 
overheating (see Chapter 3 for more details). 
 
Box 6.3  
Existing support schemes and the need for low-carbon funding 
The Balanced Pathway to Net Zero set out in Chapters 2 and 3 sees the UK invest in a 
major energy efficiency programme over the next 10-15 years, in line with Government 
policy. This prepares the stock for a full-scale transition to low-carbon heating in homes on 
the gas grid from 2030-2050. Annual investment costs rise to around £9 billion a year by 
2030, with an offsetting saving in annual operating costs of £1.5 billion. Funding for current 
policy programmes would cover part, but not all, of that gap. 
 
Fuel poor homes. There are several Exchequer-funded programmes which cover £1-2 
billion a year of investment costs between now and 2028, mainly focussed on making fuel 
poor homes more efficient: 
 
• Fuel poverty programmes. The Energy Company Obligation currently funds energy 
efficiency for the fuel poor, at £0.6 billion a year through to 2028. There are further 
publicly funded schemes in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland which add around 
£0.1 billion a year. An extra £2 billion is earmarked for fuel poor homes under the 
Homes Upgrade Grant under the 2019 Conservative party manifesto. 
• Government funding for social housing. Government has earmarked a further £3.8 
billion of funding for energy efficiency upgrades in the 5 million social homes, at 
around £0.5 billion a year. We estimate that around 40% of this would cover homes 
currently in fuel poverty. It does not cover low-carbon heat investments currently, 
which would add a further £4 billion to 2030. 
• Green Homes Grants. As part of its stimulus package, the Exchequer is currently 
providing £2.0 billion for grants for energy efficiency and low-carbon heating in 
residential homes through to April 2021 (including the £500 million Local Authority 
Scheme). These cover the full costs for low income households (capped at £10,000 per 
home), and two-thirds for others (capped at £5,000 per home). We assume here that 
up to 50% covers fuel poor homes – the exact split between fuel poor and other 
homes will be determined by demand. 
Policy proposals to extend private-rented sector minimum standards will affect who pays 
for these investments over the next decade: 
 
• The UK Government published proposals in September 2020 to require all private-
rented homes to get to EPC C by 2028. This would apply to all new lettings from 2025. 
• Based on our analysis, this suggests that up £2.5 billion a year could be passed through 
to landlords between 2025-2028. The high end of the range is if the Government takes 
a ‘dual-metric’ approach targeting both efficiency and carbon emissions, as set out in 
its 2020 consultation.* An approach which includes carbon intensity is associated with 
an additional take up of 700,000 heat pumps to 2028 in the Impact Assessment. BEIS 
has published cost estimates of £4,700 per home, or £6,200 per home for the ‘dual-
metric’ proposal. Pass-through could be higher around 2028, when the total annual 
investment programme peaks above £9 billion. 
• Between a quarter to just under half of PRS investments cover fuel poor homes, with 
the low estimate based on BEIS’ recent Impact Assessment. 
• These investments would increase the value of the landlord’s asset (i.e. the home). 
However, it remains possible that some of the costs may get passed on to tenants 
through rents. 
 
 
* ‘Dual-metric’ refers here to the energy efficiency rating (EER) which is the typical cost rating on household energy 
performance certificates (EPCs).   
301 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Existing Exchequer support through other schemes could also fund some of the required 
investment. 
 
• The domestic RHI subsidises renewable heat technologies such as heat pumps and 
biomass boilers, with subsidies paid over a seven-year period. Current forecast spend is 
around £400 million this year against an allocated budget of £1.15 billion budget for 
this financial year.  
• The existing £400 million spending will reduce to zero over the next seven years. 
• Similarly, the Green Homes Grant could be extended, which would cover an 
additional £2 billion per year. 
Implementing these proposals could cover £6-7.5 billion through to 2028 of the £9 billion 
investment required annually, and £4 billion from 2030 once the energy efficiency 
programme has been completed in most homes. The range in the 2020s is a function of 
policy design, in particular for the PRS standards (e.g. whether they cover the full 
investment in the Balanced Pathway, including whether they cover low -carbon heat). 
This leaves a gap of up to £3 billion a year in the late 2020s, rising to £4 billion a year in the 
2030s. 
 
c) Wider household costs and benefits 
 
While we expect costs to increase to the early 2030s in the electricity sector and for 
buildings, we expect a large fall in the costs of transport.  
• 
When private costs (e.g. tax) are included savings are large for individual 
consumers. For example, owners of petrol and diesel cars driving 250km 
(156 miles) in a week currently pay around £17 for their fuel. 
• 
Driving the same 250km in a typical electric vehicle could cost around £6, 
saving the driver £11 each week, equivalent to over £500 each year.33  
• 
Even with tax excluded, savings would be significant, at around £100-200 
per year.  
 
We have not undertaken a distributional assessment for motoring given the large 
cost savings expected overall – though as we note below there could still be 
potential issues of fairness. 
 
There are also considerable opportunities to improve people’s health, well-being 
and access to the natural environment. We set those out in Chapter 5 at an 
economy-wide level. Delivering these in a fair way and ensuring broad access to 
the benefits should be a policy focus, alongside avoiding unfair distributions of 
cost. 
 
We also identify various other risks in our scenarios of potentially regressive or unfair 
effects that can be foreseen and should be planned for.  
• 
Savings from electric vehicles may not be equally available. If infrastructure 
in urban areas is prioritised, rural drivers risk missing some of these benefits. 
Similarly vehicle charging at home is cheaper than charging in public 
places, favouring those with off-street parking. All electricity consumers may 
end up paying for network upgrades that are required for electric vehicles, 
regardless of whether, or how much they drive. As well as incentivising EV 
uptake, tax decisions must be seen to be fair to those who cannot afford to 
buy new EVs. 
 
• 
Gas networks. As homes are electrified, the usage of the UK’s gas networks 
will decline, and the costs of managing this infrastructure could fall on 
We can already foresee some 
of the risks of the transition, 
including in areas where costs 
are likely to rise such as heat in 
buildings. 
The transition to electric 
vehicles offers a major cost 
saving to consumers. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
302 
fewer and fewer billpayers, disproportionately affecting those who remain 
on the gas grid. This could exacerbate fuel poverty and regional income 
inequality. 
• 
Decarbonising the UK’s manufacturing and construction sectors, including 
sectors like food processing and beverages, will lead to an increase in the 
costs of some goods. Where these are essential products, passing through 
these costs to consumers could be regressive. However, even with full pass 
through impacts on the prices of final goods is likely to be relatively limited. 
• 
The costs of aviation could increase, as airlines pay for engineered CO2 
removals to offset the emissions of flights, despite fuel cost savings from 
higher efficiency and lower emissions per flight than currently. For example, 
paying for CO2 removal could add over £100 to a £500 return flight to New 
York in 2035.* While generally, people who fly have a higher ability to pay 
for these costs – 70% of flights are taken by 15% of people,34 added costs 
could be seen as unfair to families who go abroad infrequently. Frequent 
flyer levies have been suggested as a means of paying for this and were 
favoured by the Climate Assembly. 
• 
When costs are paid for can raise questions around intergenerational 
fairness. Given the length of the transition, and a distribution of costs over 
30 years in the CCC’s scenarios, young people will bear a portion of the 
costs of the transition, and also deal with the impacts of a warming planet. 
This points against any backloading of costs, which would need to be paid 
by future generations, and towards the need for a smooth transition to Net 
Zero.   
 
These risks emphasise the importance of planning for a just transition and to share 
costs, and benefits, fairly. They should be considered carefully within the Treasury’s 
Net Zero Review and in ongoing policy design to drive the transition. Towards 2050, 
the falling costs of transport and electricity have the scope to offset the costs of 
switching to low-carbon heat (Figure 6.5). 
 
 
 
 
* Aviation emissions are not fully offset through emissions removals in our scenarios by 2035, but are by 2050. 
Paying for emissions removals, 
could add £100 to a return 
flight to New York in 2035. 
303 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 6.5 Falling costs for zero carbon power and 
transport have the scope to offset heating costs 
 
Sources: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Figures are illustrative of costs over a transition to Net Zero. Heating costs are annualised over the period 
2020-2050. Costs for power and transport are annualised costs in 2050, and the power costs include savings from 
paying for legacy renewable electricity projects under the Levy Control Framework. Transport savings are pre-tax 
and do not relate to the fact that electric vehicles do not pay fuel duty or Vehicle Exercise Duty. Transport costs 
include costs of cars, vans, HGVs, buses and rail. 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
304 
4. Fiscal circumstances 
The Climate Change Act requires that we consider ‘fiscal circumstances, and in 
particular the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and public 
borrowing.’ We note that the UK is starting from a position of stretched public 
finances and high borrowing and debt as a result of the response to the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
 
Our scenarios can be delivered without major implications for the public finances. 
Market mechanisms can be used to ensure that the private sector brings forward 
the majority of the required investment. The areas we identify as benefiting most 
from public spending require up to around £4-6 billion extra annual funding by 
2030. Greater use of carbon taxes could bring in significantly more revenue to 
balance this spending. There may also be benefits to general taxation in the near-
term to the extent that the low-carbon investment programme supports economy-
wide investment and the UK’s economic recovery. A particular priority will be 
considering how to replace lost annual revenues from fuel duty (£28 billion) and 
Vehicle Excise Duty (£7 billion), for which a switch to road charging is an option. 
 
This section considers: 
a) Current environmental taxes and public spending 
b) Implications of the Net Zero pathway for taxation 
c) Implications of the Net Zero pathway for public spending 
 
a) Current environmental taxes and spending 
 
The UK Government already supports decarbonisation programmes, spending an 
estimated over £5 billion/year (around 0.25% of GDP), via low-carbon energy 
support paid through direct Exchequer spending (around £1billion per year on the 
Renewable Heat Incentive, and grants for electric vehicles), and payments for 
environmental land management under the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy 
(‘CAP’ – around £0.5 billion/year).35  
 
Additionally the Government supports low-carbon energy via levies on bills, 
including for renewable electricity (around £10 billion/year forecast in 2020-21) and 
energy efficiency (around £0.6 billion/year – Table 6.1).  
 
Further spending also takes place through Government department budgets and 
research institutions. Similarly, tax reliefs, such as reduced rates of VAT or 
exemptions, are classed as Government spending, making it hard to build up a 
comprehensive picture of current low-carbon public spending. The UK spends a 
significant amount on International Climate Finance (£5.8 billion over 2016-2021, 
doubling for the following five years). 
 
The Government also collects environmental taxes of over £3 billion per year from 
revenue from carbon pricing (including CRC, CCL and auctioned allowances 
under the EU ETS)* and around £0.7 billion per year through landfill tax. Receipts 
from fuel duty are around £28 billion per year from sales of petrol and diesel to 
road vehicles, and a further £7 billion is raised from Vehicle Excise Duty.   
 
 
* CCL = Climate Change Levy, a levy on the fossil fuel content of fuels. CRC = Carbon Reduction Commitment, a 
Government energy efficiency scheme.  
Our scenarios can be 
delivered without major 
implications for the public 
finances. 
The Government already 
supports decarbonisation 
programmes in the UK via 
direct funding, and levies on 
energy bills.  
305 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Additional support for decarbonisation programmes come from the Governments 
of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, however this funding is not considered 
directly in this chapter.  
 
More broadly, across the UK policies with objectives that are not directly related to 
climate change mitigation indirectly reflect a carbon price and are applied, to 
varying extents, in the surface transport (e.g. fuel duty, VED) and waste sectors 
(e.g. landfill tax), and to energy use in commercial and residential buildings (e.g. 
reduced VAT on energy - see section iii).  
 
b) Implications of the Net Zero pathway for taxation 
 
Most changes to the Government balance sheet resulting from the transition to 
Net Zero will be relatively gradual, playing out through to 2050. There is time and 
scope within annual budgets to make adjustments to the fiscal framework, and 
develop suitable policy and funding instruments to avoid fundamentally changing 
the burden of taxation.   
 
Changes in tax receipts 
 
Our pathways have two significant implications for receipts from current UK taxes. 
First, they will have an effect across the economy on growth and investment, with 
implications for tax receipts. Second, they will affect receipts from particular taxes. 
 
We have not attempted to quantify the cross-economy impacts, given the 
uncertainties set out in Chapter 5 for predicting the impact of the low-carbon 
investment programme on GDP (e.g. we identify an annualised resource cost in 
2035 of less than 1% of GDP, while macroeconomic modelling suggests a potential 
2% GDP boost). To the extent that the investment programme supports the UK’s 
economic recovery it could have a large positive impact on general taxation. The 
increased spending from the investment programme (i.e. £50 billion annually by 
2030, continuing to 2050) could translate to increased tax receipts. 
 
The clearest single measure affecting taxation directly is the shift to low-carbon 
transport, eliminating petrol and diesel use by 2050. Under current tax treatment, as 
low-carbon vehicles reach 100% of vehicle sales by 2030, fuel duty receipts, which 
currently account for £28 billion of Government tax receipts annually (equivalent 
to 4% of total Government spending, and 1.4% of GDP), would drop to zero. So too 
would Vehicle Excise Duty (VED) of £7 billion per year. A shift towards road 
charging could address these impacts (Box 6.8). 
 
Much smaller changes would also be seen in other taxes. For example, landfill tax 
(currently £0.7 billion per year) would fall as waste is reduced and diverted to other 
means of disposal in our scenarios. Income from carbon taxes and trading 
schemes will tend to fall as emissions fall (the power sector switches over fully to 
low-carbon options by 2035 in our scenarios), but that may be offset by rising 
carbon prices and falling levels of free allocation (and potentially longer term by 
carbon border tariffs levied on high-carbon imports or by extension of carbon 
trading/taxes to other sectors).  
 
 
 
A transition to electric vehicles 
puts at risk around £35 billion 
per year of current 
Government tax receipts. 
Options exist to address this. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
306 
The role of carbon taxes 
 
To incentivise the transition to Net Zero, relative prices will need to reflect carbon 
content sufficiently to favour low-carbon options over high-carbon options. That 
can be achieved through explicit carbon pricing or other levers. 
 
In principle, all sectors of the economy can be exposed to carbon pricing. In the 
UK at present, carbon pricing is applied inconsistently:  
• 
Electricity prices currently carry most climate policy costs. That increases 
electricity prices relative to natural gas and discourages a switch to lower-
carbon electric heating. These costs must be a priority area for reform.  
• 
Other sectors face less explicit carbon prices but can be judged indirectly 
to reflect a carbon price. For example, in the surface transport and waste 
sectors, and energy use in commercial and residential buildings.36  
• 
However, some sectors do not face a carbon price at all, or face reduced 
tax rates that are judged by some to be, in effect, negative carbon prices 
or fossil fuel subsidies.37 
• For example, home heating (often using natural gas) faces a reduced 
rate of VAT.* Red diesel fuel for tractors is another example. These 
examples demonstrate the importance of wider considerations, 
including equity and fairness, given the regressive nature of charges 
on energy bills and the wider policy package to support farmers. 
• Similarly, aviation fuel faces no taxes at all, meaning that international 
flights that go beyond EU borders (where they are covered by the EU 
Emissions Trading System) do not face a carbon price or fuel taxation. 
Equity arguments are less relevant for this sector, although as set out 
above, the Climate Assembly favoured a frequent flyer levy on 
account of fairness concerns.  
• Energy-from-waste plants also face very little carbon taxation. 
 
Greater use of carbon taxes can also support the public finances while 
strengthening incentives to reduce emissions. They are particularly attractive when 
global oil prices, and therefore consumers' energy costs, are low, as they are now.  
 
The Zero Carbon Commission estimate that carbon pricing could raise up to £27 
billion per year by 2030, though this could increase costs to households, raising a 
further need for an equitable redistribution of costs. †38 Recognising this need, the 
ZCC suggests that some carbon pricing revenue could be redirected towards the 
most affected households. We set out further considerations on the role of carbon 
pricing and options for broadening it in our accompanying Policy Report. 
 
 
 
 
*   A Green Gas Levy has been proposed, paid through gas bills, that will fund the injection of biomethane into the 
natural gas grid. It is expected to come into place in 2021.   
†   The Zero Carbon Commission estimate that £27 billion/year could be raised via a £75/tCO2 charge across most 
domestic sectors, revenue from a Border Carbon Adjustment for industry, energy and agriculture, and removal of 
the Red Diesel subsidy for agriculture and shipping. This is an increase on carbon revenues of over £2 billion/year 
today.  
Carbon taxes could be 
expanded, but without careful 
management this could raise 
issues around the equitable 
distribution of these costs. 
307 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
Box 6.5:  
Impact of electric vehicle uptake on taxation revenues 
Electric vehicles (EVs) currently benefit from preferential tax treatment to conventional vehicles: 
EVs are zero-rated for vehicle excise duty, do not pay fuel duty on the electricity they consume 
and benefit from capital grants towards purchase costs. In the longer term these will likely not 
be needed – fewer parts and greater efficiency in energy use mean they will be cheaper to 
buy and run even without tax advantages. We expect that parity in total cost of ownership for 
a typical car will be reached in around 2025, and by 2030 EVs will offer consumers considerable 
savings over their lifetime. However, the transition to EVs could, without policy changes, raise 
two key issues: 
 
• Lower tax receipts. Fossil fuel consumption in road transport decreases by 69% by 2035 in our 
Balanced Pathway. This will lead to a substantial reduction in revenue from fuel duty of £12-
14 billion per year by 2035 (Figure B6.5). By 2050, fuel duty revenues will drop from around £28 
billion now to zero. Vehicle Excise Duty receipts are currently around £7 billion annually, but 
electric vehicles are exempt. On current treatment revenues would decline towards zero as 
the UK switches over to EVs. 
• Increased congestion. As the marginal cost of driving a mile will be cheaper with an EV, we 
would expect to see a rebound effect whereby the average car drives more miles. This 
could lead to increased congestion. 
In order to address both, some form of road pricing is likely to be necessary. Road pricing 
involves direct charges levied on drivers for road use, with options to vary charges based on 
road type, time of day and vehicle type to reflect the impact of individual journeys and help 
minimise congestion. Such charges could apply to all vehicle types and be set at a level to fill 
the gap left by fuel duty. The size of the fuel cost savings means that EVs are expected to be 
cost-saving for consumers even after use of road pricing. 
 
Figure B6.5 Total fuel duty receipts in the past 
decade and expected under our Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: OBR and ONS (2019); CCC analysis 
Notes: Future rates of fuel duty are calculated in line with OBR forecasts – from 2020/21 onwards, these are uprated 
each year in line with growth in the Retail Prices Index (RPI); also shown is a hypothetical scenario in which an 
escalator of 1p above RPI is applied each year. The lines on the left show actual fuel duty receipts in the period of 
2011-2020 (estimated), along with how these could have differed if they had been subject to RPI uprating or an RPI 
+1 escalator. All figures are in cash terms. 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
308 
c) Implications of the Net Zero pathway for public spending 
 
Chapter 5 set out the need for additional investment in low-carbon technologies 
and infrastructure to increase from around £10 billion per year today to over £50 
billion per year by 2030. Most of these investments will be funded and delivered by 
the private sector. Government borrowing rates are particularly low, but so are 
those for the private sector. The use of Government policy to de-risk private sector 
investment is likely to be more important than direct public investment in most 
areas, and can be used to leverage many multiples of any Government spend.  
 
In many areas funding instruments are already in place, and Government can 
build on these to deliver policy packages that use some public funding, backed by 
strong policy, to leverage private investment in the 2020s (Table 6.1).  
• 
New renewable electricity projects are now cheaper than high-carbon 
electricity in the UK. However targeted support will still be required in some 
areas, such as port infrastructure for offshore wind (e.g. the recently 
announced £160m funding for ports servicing offshore wind farms). Larger-
scale funding (which is currently levied on bills, and therefore covered in 
our analysis above) is likely to be needed to support nuclear power (e.g. 
via a regulated asset base – RAB – model), novel renewables (such as 
wave, floating wind, and tidal) and funding for hydrogen and CCS power 
projects.  
• 
Switching homes to low-carbon heating and improving energy efficiency 
remains a major challenge. Standards and regulation can incentivise 
housebuilders and landlords to improve the efficiency and install low-
carbon heat in new and existing homes. As set out in Box 6.5 above several 
schemes exist that draw on Exchequer spending. Continuing that spending 
(including temporary schemes like the Green Home Grants) and directing 
funding towards grants could support the majority of the required 
investment programme without adding to energy bills if extra annual 
funding of up to £3 billion was provided from the late 2020s. Longer term 
this could fall as low-carbon heating costs fall and standards pass more of 
the investment cost onto consumers. Around £1 billion is required annually 
for public sector buildings. 
• 
Deep decarbonisation measures in manufacturing and construction have a 
combined capital and operating cost of the order of £2.5 billion a year by 
2030, and £5 billion a year by 2050. Some of this could be passed onto 
industry, however, trade-exposed industries will require a level playing field 
to ensure that emissions are reduced, not offshored (see section 2). For an 
interim period, industrial decarbonisation of trade-exposed sectors should 
be funded by taxpayers, but this can be reduced over time by introducing 
policy on imports and as other countries take action to meet their 
commitments under the Paris Agreement. Some early deployment support 
may also be needed for less trade-exposed sectors. 
• 
Farmers and land managers currently receive large subsidies from the EU's 
Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), but not for reducing GHG emissions. The 
UK Agriculture Bill intends to redirect subsidies towards public goods and 
could support the major transition in land use and farming practices 
required by the Net Zero target and our recommended Sixth Carbon 
Budget. Realising the changes in UK land use in our scenarios could require 
funding of at least £1 billion/year, which can be partly provided by the 
private sector and partly through public funding.  
 
Government de-risking of 
private sector investment can 
bring forward most of the 
investment in our scenarios. 
309 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
The annual costs of removing emissions from the atmosphere are 
potentially large in our scenarios (e.g. of the order of £6 billion/year by 2050, 
from an initial scale of around £1 billion/year in 2030). Initial development of 
these technologies is likely to require some Exchequer funding, however in 
the long-term costs should be paid for by polluting industries (e.g. aviation).  
• 
As electric vehicles continue to fall in costs, current purchase subsidies can 
be phased out. By 2050, we expect the shift to low-carbon options like 
electrification to cut the annual costs of UK transport by around £19 billion 
per year. That can be achieved while maintaining transport's tax 
contribution and allows for the costs of charge-points and other 
infrastructure, whilst phasing out the capital subsidies, and lower vehicle 
and fuel taxation that EVs currently benefit from.  
• 
Additional Exchequer support is likely to be required for large scale 
demonstration projects in low-carbon hydrogen production, CCS 
infrastructure, HGV trials and local projects such as Net Zero Pathfinder 
cities.  
In total these areas imply a need for Exchequer funding rising to at least £9-12 
billion per year by 2030, an increase on the £5 billion per year of direct Exchequer 
funding spent today (Table 6.1). Spending through low-carbon levies also will need 
to increase, as set out in section 3 on energy bills. Other spending that we have not 
identified may be appropriate in support of the just transition. 
 
Generally, we would expect a move away from Exchequer funding over time – a 
continued need for subsidies is unlikely to inspire business confidence in low-carbon 
markets. Standards and regulation complemented by carbon pricing can be used 
to ensure the low-carbon option is favoured, and where appropriate, the high-
carbon option is phased out. The role of Government then becomes ensuring 
efficient markets and avoiding inequalities.  
• 
Supporting cost reduction. As seen in the power sector over the past 
decade, initial Government support can enable technology cost 
reductions, allowing support to be reduced over time. Our scenarios 
involve increasing roles for other emerging technologies (e.g. emissions 
removals, low-carbon HGV trials, and floating wind).  
• 
Standards and regulation can be used to mandate suppliers of higher-
carbon technologies and fuels to provide low-carbon alternatives, driving 
deployment at scale.  
• 
Where possible, costs can be passed through, such as in sectors that are 
not exposed to international trade, or in buildings, where the cost the low-
carbon heating could be absorbed into property values for new build and 
existing homes.  Where the costs of decarbonisation are higher, premiums 
for low-carbon goods may be acceptable, if applied universally. For 
example, product standards (possibly alongside border carbon tariffs) in 
the UK could ultimately create a market for low-carbon steel a slightly 
higher price. 
• 
Carbon markets and carbon trading can be used instead, or alongside 
standards and regulation to incentivise an efficient balancing of positive 
and negative emissions (see next section).   
• 
Ongoing Government funding will still be needed, to support innovation, 
build skills and ensure the equitable distribution of costs.   
Chapter 1 of the policy report that accompanies our advice has further detail 
on the role of all actors, including Government, over the transition to Net Zero. 
Exchequer funding will need 
to increase to around £9-12 
billion/year by 2030, from £5 
billion today. 
Beyond 2030, we except 
Government funding to 
decrease as part of a 
transition to standards, 
regulations and market-
based mechanisms. 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
310 
 
Table 6.1 
Illustrative package of Exchequer funding for the Balanced Pathway in the 2020s 
Illustrative 
funding from the 
Exchequer 
(£bn/year)  
Today 
Investment costs in the 
Balanced Pathway 
(2030)  
Illustrative package of Exchequer 
funding in the Balanced Pathway 
(2030) 
Low-carbon heat 
and energy 
efficiency in 
buildings 
£1bn/year through the 
Renewable Heat Incentive 
 
£2bn Green Homes Grant 
 
£1bn Public Sector 
Decarbonisation Scheme 
 
£0.1bn/ year Heat Networks 
funding 
£17bn/year capex, 
partially offset by 
£5bn/year operating 
cost savings due to 
energy efficiency   
£5-7bn/year, including an 
additional £0.5bn/year for low-
income households; £0.5bn/year for 
social homes; £1bn/year for public 
sector buildings. 
Electric vehicles 
£0.2bn/year through grants 
to electric vehicles and £0.1 
billion for charging 
infrastructure 
£10bn/year of 
additional investment 
(through a programme 
of investment in the 
2020s that leads to 
operating cost savings 
of £14bn/year across 
the fleet in 2030) 
Mostly funded through the private 
sector, though some continued 
support might be required on the 
rollout of charging infrastructure, 
and low-carbon buses and HGVs. 
Manufacturing & 
construction  
Around £0.1bn/year per 
year via IETF, ISCF and other 
funds  
£2.5bn/year for 
combined capital and 
operational costs.  
Around £2-3bn/year to support 
trade-exposed subsectors and to 
support early/mid stage 
deployment. Reduces over time 
with policy on imports and 
reduction in early/mid stage 
support.  Potential further cost to 
remove legacy renewable support 
costs from industry power bills. 
Land use & 
agriculture 
£0.5bn/year for 
environmental land 
management under the 
CAP.   
£1bn/year 
£1bn/year funded via the ELMS 
scheme.  
Engineered 
removals 
- 
£1bn/year** 
£1bn/year could be required to 
scale up an early engineered 
removals market. 
Total 
£5 billion per year 
£47 billion per year 
£9-12 billion per year 
Additional levies 
Electricity supply: £10bn/year today is raised to pay for legacy renewable projects, expected to 
fall to £9bn/year by 2030 and £3.5bn/year by 2035. Additional levies, peaking at up to £9bn/year 
in 2030 and falling thereafter, could be required over this period to fund new nuclear, hydrogen 
and CCS plant– see section 3b.  
Buildings: £0.6bn/year through ECO, Green gas levy (proposed). 
Other 
Additional support for research, development, innovation and demonstration projects, as well as 
funding for policy development and delivery is likely to be required across all sectors.  
 
Source: CCC analysis based on OBR (2020) March 2020 Economic and Fiscal outlook, HMT (2020) Budget 2020 and EU (2020) The Common Agricultural 
Policy in Figures. 
Notes: *Actually levied on electricity bills under the Levy Control Framework, which includes payments through Feed-in-Tariffs, the Renewables 
Obligation and Contracts for Difference. **Annualised resource costs, not in year capital and operating costs. Buildings numbers are both res and non-
res. CAP = Common Agricultural Policy. Payments listed under Pillar II for the UK. IETF = Industrial Energy Transformation Fu nd. ISCF = Industrial Strategy 
Challenge Fund. 
 
 
 
311 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1 International Labour Organisation (2015) Guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally 
sustainable economies and societies for all 
2 ONS (2020) Low carbon and renewable energy economy, UK: 2018 
3 The Royal Society (2019) Digital technologies and the planet 
4 UK Parliament (2020) Technological Innovations and Climate Change: Offshore Wind - Written 
evidence submitted by Mr Nathan Bennett 
5 STUC (2019) Broken Promises and Offshored Jobs 
6 BEIS (2019) Offshore wind sector deal 
7 Scottish Just Transition Commission (2019) Just Transition Commission meeting papers: April 2019 
8 House of Commons Library (2020) UK oil and gas industry 
9 Greenpeace (2020) Offshore Oil and gas workers’ views on industry conditions and the energy 
transition 
10 Fothergill (2017) Coal Transition in the United Kingdom 
11 IEA (2020) World Energy Outlook 
12 National Grid (2020) Building the Net Zero energy workforce 
13 LSE (2020) Seizing sustainable growth opportunities from zero emission passenger vehicles in the 
UK  
14 BEIS (2019) Energy Innovation Needs Assessment 
15 BEIS (2019) Energy Innovation Needs Assessment  
16 See 17 
17 See 17  
18 CCC (2020) Land Use Policies for a Net Zero UK 
19 ONS (2019) Total wealth in Great Britain: April 2016 to March 2018 
20 McCann (2018) Perceptions of regional inequality and the geography of discontent: insights 
from the UK 
21 ONS (2020) Regional gross disposable household income, UK: 1997 to 2018 
22 See 12 
23 See 6 
24 European Commission (2020) Commission Work Programme 2021 
25 Reuters (2020) EU eying carbon border fees plan for steel, cement and power: senior official 
26 Norcem (2020) CCS at Norcem Brevik: Background 
27 ETC (2020) Making Mission Possible 
28 CCC (2020) The Potential for Product Standards to Address Industrial Emissions  
29 Ofgem (2020) Infographic: Bills, prices and profits 
30 CCC (2017) Energy Prices and Bills.  
31 BEIS (2020) Annual Fuel Poverty Statistics in England, 2020 (2018 data) 
32 Scotland: Energy Action Scotland (2020) Fuel Poverty Overview; Wales: Welsh Government 
(2019) Fuel poverty estimates for Wales: 2018; Northern Ireland: Department for Communities 
(2019) Fuel poverty.  
33 Assuming fuel costs on average £1.15/l at the pump and the average car today does around 
39mpg, which equates to 0.06 l/km. To drive 250km would then require around 15l of petrol, 
which would cost £17.45. For comparison, the electricity consumption of a typical BEV today is 
0.17 kWh/km and electricity prices are around 14p/kWh. 
34 Full Fact (2016) Do 15% of people take 70% of flights? 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 6: A just transition to the Sixth Carbon Budget and Net Zero 
312 
 
 
35 CCC analysis based on OBR (2020) March 2020 fiscal supplementary tables forecast for 2020-21 
and EU (2020) The Common Agricultural Policy in Figures. Note this does not include all 
payments under CAP, only those for Pillar II.  
36 ESC (2019) Rethinking decarbonisation incentives 
37 Institute for Fiscal Studies (2013) Energy use policies and carbon pricing in the UK. Where 
reduced tax rates are applied to fossil fuels, this is sometimes referred to as fossil fuel subsidies. 
38 Zero Carbon Commission (2020) How carbon pricing can help Britain achieve Net Zero by 2050 
313 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
The Sixth Carbon Budget as a 
contribution to the Paris 
Agreement 
 
 
1. Reflecting the Paris Agreement in our scenarios 
317 
2. Is the Balanced Pathway a fair and ambitious contribution? 
322 
3. Supporting global efforts to reduce emissions 
333 
4. Reducing the UK’s carbon footprint 
344 
 
 
 
315 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Climate change is a global problem requiring a global response. The 2015 Paris 
Agreement frames that response by setting a long-term global temperature goal 
and requiring bottom-up nationally determined contributions from each country 
that reflect their particular responsibilities and capabilities. Together, these 
commitments should deliver the long-term temperature goal. 
 
The Sixth Carbon Budget recommended in this report – requiring that UK territorial 
greenhouse emissions (GHG) emissions are reduced 78% by 2035 relative to 1990 – 
would form part of the UK’s contribution to this global effort. Chapters 2 to 6 set out 
pathways to deliver the budget, and the impacts that these may have. This 
chapter sets out why the Committee considers these pathways to be an 
appropriate contribution from the UK towards the global goals of the Paris 
Agreement.  
 
This chapter also sets out the implications of the pathways from Chapters 2 and 3 
for the UK’s consumption emissions and considers the options available to the UK 
for supplementing reducing UK territorial emissions to Net Zero with additional 
support for emissions reductions overseas consistent with its Paris Agreement 
obligations. 
 
The key findings of this chapter are:  
• 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway represents a fair and ambitious 
contribution to the Paris Agreement. This pathway, which is the basis for our 
recommended Sixth Carbon Budget, would require the UK to deploy all the 
actions necessary for the world to keep warming to below 1.5°C at or 
before when they are required from the world as a whole, consistent with 
the UK’s obligation as a developed country to take a lead. Pursing the 
highest feasible ambition for rapid reductions in emissions to 2035 would 
help minimise the UK’s contribution to global warming between now and 
reaching Net Zero and would see UK emissions per person in 2035 consistent 
with the global average in scenarios expected to keep warming to 1.5°C.  
• 
The UK’s Nationally Determined Contribution to the Paris Agreement should 
be set based on the same pathway as the Sixth Carbon Budget. We have 
considered the required principles for an NDC under the Paris Agreement, 
particularly the need for ‘highest possible ambition’, in constructing the 
Balanced Pathway. The UK should also use the opportunity of its role as the 
host of the international negotiations to reaffirm and strengthen other 
aspects of its contribution to tackling climate change, in particular the 
need to strengthen adaptation planning for the inevitable future increases 
in climate risks, both around the world and in the UK. 
• 
Action to develop and deploy deeper decarbonisation options over the 
2020s in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway can have significant global 
benefits in the decades thereafter. Our Balanced Pathway deploys most 
low-carbon options at scale before they must reach similar scales for the 
world as a whole, but in line with emerging commitments from other 
climate leaders. That is particularly important for deeper decarbonisation 
options including widespread electrification in industry, carbon capture 
and storage (CCS) and low-carbon hydrogen, some which are currently 
relatively expensive and need early-stage support before a global scale-up 
would be credible. The UK is well-placed to help pioneer developments in 
these areas alongside other developed countries.  
This chapter provides the 
Committee’s assessment of 
the international 
circumstances and the UK’s 
contribution to the Paris 
Agreement.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
316 
Slower progress in these areas over the coming decade would risk 
undermining the rapid global scale-up required in these technologies over 
the 2030s and beyond to deliver on the Paris Agreement.  
• 
The UK can and should do more to support the global effort than just 
delivering its domestic emissions reduction pathways. Climate risks globally 
and in the UK will only stop increasing when global emissions decline to 
close to zero. As a developed country, the UK has a responsibility to do 
more to support the global decarbonisation effort than just deliver 
ambitious domestic commitments to reduce emissions. Opportunities exist 
for the UK to help drive up global ambition across many areas alongside 
other developed countries. In particular, the UK’s role as host of COP26 and 
President of the G7 group in 2021 give it an opportunity and a responsibility 
to coordinate efforts to align the economic responses to COVID-19 with the 
significant shifts in investment patterns needed over the coming decade to 
keep the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal within reach. The UK 
is an important provider of climate finance for both mitigation and 
adaptation. And the UK’s role as a global financial hub indicates additional 
opportunities to do so through financial system reform.  
• 
Part of the UK’s effort to support global decarbonisation should involve 
actions to track and reduce its overseas consumption footprint. A variety of 
levers are available to the UK to support reductions in the overseas 
emissions that help meet UK consumption. Under successful efforts to 
reduce global emissions in line with the Paris Agreement, exploratory 
modelling indicates that the UK’s consumption emissions footprint could be 
reduced as much as 90% below 1990 levels. The Government should track 
these emissions against a target trajectory consistent with global outcomes 
achieving the Paris Agreement.  
 
We set out our analysis in four sections:  
1. Reflecting the Paris Agreement in our scenarios 
2. Is the Balanced Net Zero Pathway a fair and ambitious contribution?  
3. Supporting the global effort to reduce emissions 
4. Reducing the UK’s consumption footprint 
317 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1. Reflecting the Paris Agreement in our scenarios 
The Paris Agreement is the globally agreed framework for tackling climate change, 
created at the 21st Conference of Parties (COP21) to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2015 and has been in 
force since 2016. It has been ratified by 188 countries representing around 80% of 
current global greenhouse gas emissions.  
 
This section summarises the aims of the Paris Agreement and the obligations on the 
UK to reduce its territorial GHG emissions as a Party to the Agreement and explains 
how they are reflected in the scenarios developed in this report. It is in two sub-
sections: 
a) National contributions to the Paris Agreement 
b) How the scenarios in this report reflect the Paris Agreement 
 
a) National contributions to the Paris Agreement 
 
The Paris Agreement set a long-term temperature target of keeping warming ‘well-
below’ 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and ‘pursuing efforts’ to keep it below 
1.5°C. 
 
To achieve that temperature goal, the Agreement identified three high-level 
milestones for global GHG emissions: 
• 
Global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible 
• 
Rapid reductions thereafter 
• 
Achieving a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century  
 
To achieve these global objectives, the Paris Agreement also created a system 
requiring countries to produce regular nationally determined contributions (NDCs) 
to the long-term goals of the Agreement. This system has several important 
features:  
• 
An obligation to produce an NDC: All countries must produce or update 
NDCs on a regular 5-yearly cycle. Countries are requested to 
‘communicate’ or ‘update’ their existing NDCs (for emissions reductions 
prior to 2030) ‘by 2020’. The UK was previously covered by the EU NDC 
(currently a 40% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 against a 1990 
baseline) but is required to submit its own NDC having left the European 
Union. Our advice on the level of the UK’s Fifth Carbon Budget estimated 
that the UK’s contribution to this EU target would be approximately a 53% 
reduction in GHG emissions relative to 1990 levels, slightly less than the 
legislated level of the Fifth Carbon Budget. 
• 
Nationally determined emissions reduction targets: NDC targets are 
determined in a ‘bottom-up’ fashion by the countries themselves. 
– Parties are encouraged to commit to absolute economy-wide 
emissions reduction targets for a defined single year, but can 
currently choose a narrower sectoral coverage, or alternative 
metrics such as carbon intensity (e.g. India). 
The Paris Agreement is the 
main international framework 
to tackle climate change.  
The Paris Agreement sets a 
long-term temperature goal 
and aims to reduce global 
emissions to Net Zero. 
All countries have an 
obligation to produce a 
pledge to reduce emissions 
but set the levels of the targets 
themselves.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
318 
– Producing an NDC is a legal obligation under the Paris 
Agreement, but meeting the emissions reduction targets in the 
NDC is only legally binding if countries choose to enshrine those 
targets in national law.  
– In 2018 the Parties to the Paris Agreement agreed a ‘rulebook’ 
to help further standardise NDC accounting between countries 
– although some aspects of this rulebook (such as the rules for 
the interaction of NDCs with global carbon markets) remain to 
be agreed. This includes a requirement to use the global 
warming potential values (at a 100-year time horizon) from the 
IPCC 5th Assessment Report (IPCC-AR5) to aggregate GHG 
emissions.*  
• 
Principles for national contributions: The Paris Agreement requires that NDCs 
reflect each party’s highest possible ambition and their common-but-
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, while accounting 
for their national circumstances. 
– Highest possible ambition. Each Country’s successive NDC 
should be a ‘progression’ beyond its previous one (the so-called 
ratchet mechanism) and should reflect its ‘highest possible 
ambition’ to reduce emissions. 
– Common-but-differentiated responsibilities and respective 
capabilities (CBDR-RC) in the light of different national 
circumstances. This refers to the principle that, while all countries 
have responsibility to take actions to support the global goal, 
developed countries (that are generally wealthier and have 
contributed more to past climate change) should take a lead. 
Similarly, the capability to reduce emissions depends on wealth, 
development needs, and the sources of emissions that make up 
a country’s footprint.  
 
The first NDCs from all parties to the agreement, which mostly extend out to 2030, 
are required to be updated or recommunicated by the end of 2020 according to 
a decision of the UNFCCC at the 21st annual Conference of Parties (COP21) in 
2015, and reinforced by a decision at COP25 in 2019.  
 
The required NDC commitments for the UK are related to, but formally 
independent of, its obligations for emissions reductions under the domestic carbon 
budget framework (Figure 7.1). The UK’s NDC under the Paris Agreement should 
extend up to 2030, the mid-point of the Fifth Carbon Budget period. The UK will be 
required to submit its second NDC by 2025 for emissions reductions after 2030. This 
should be for 2035, the mid-year of the Sixth Carbon Budget period, or for a later 
period, depending on future international negotiations on establishing common 
timeframes. 
 
 
 
 
 
*   The IPCC 5th Assessment report contains two sets of values for the global warming potential to a 100-year time-
horizon (GWP100), those including and excluding climate-carbon feedbacks. We use the set of values with climate-
carbon feedbacks reflecting the IPCC-AR5 assessment that ‘it is likely that including the climate–carbon feedback 
for non-CO2 gases as well as for CO2 provides a better estimate of the metric value than including it only for CO2’. 
All countries are asked to be 
as ambitious as possible with 
their emissions reductions, with 
an expectation that levels of 
action would be different 
between countries.  
The UK’s commitments under 
the Paris Agreement are 
related to, but are formally 
independent of, the UK’s 
domestic carbon budgets.  
The UK will have to produce a 
pledge to reduce emissions 
over the period to 2030.   
319 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 7.1 Paris Agreement and UK Climate 
Change Act timelines 
 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
Countries are also requested to submit a mid-century low-greenhouse gas 
development pathway to the UNFCCC by the end of 2020. The UK previously 
submitted its Clean Growth Strategy, which set out plans on the path to the 
previous UK long-term emissions target to reduce emissions by at least 80% by 2050 
relative to 1990. The Government has stated its intention to submit a new Net Zero 
Strategy as an updated mid-century pathway. 
 
Countries are also expected to contribute more widely to tackling climate 
change, for example through adaptation and climate finance. We discuss some of 
these opportunities in sections 3 and 4. These wider contributions are particularly 
important for the UK as COP26 President to help support the wider effort to 
increase ambition to tackle climate change internationally. 
 
b) How our scenarios reflect the Paris Agreement principles 
 
The Committee has factored in key obligations from the Paris Agreement and 
UNFCCC into the construction of the scenarios used in this report:  
• 
‘Highest possible ambition’ has been a key principle in the scenario design 
set out in Chapters 1 to 3. This includes pushing forward on the 
development of multiple options where the optimal solution isn’t clear. 
Scenarios are designed to reduce emissions as fast as reasonably possible, 
rather than making changes as late as possible, while still allowing the 2050 
Net Zero target to be met.  
We have incorporated the 
principles of the Paris 
Agreement into the process of 
building pathways to Net Zero 
in the UK.   
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
320 
All scenarios in this report involve a considerable progression in effort from 
the existing EU NDC (which has covered the UK’s formal commitment to the 
Paris Agreement to date) and existing UK carbon budgets. These scenarios 
require the UK to deploy actions necessary for the world to keep warming 
below 1.5°C before they are required from the world as a whole (Section 
2). 
• 
Common-but-differentiated responsibilities in the light of different national 
circumstances. The UK’s Net Zero target for 2050 covers all greenhouse 
gases (GHGs). This Net Zero date is around two decades earlier than when 
global GHG emissions reach Net Zero in emissions pathways assessed by 
the IPCC as limiting warming to 1.5°C (50% probability with no or low 
overshoot). An earlier Net Zero date for the UK than the world is consistent 
with the UK’s responsibilities as a relatively rich country with a high historical 
contribution to climate change and high overseas consumption emissions 
footprint. Consistent with this principle, our pathways to this Net Zero target 
are constructed to require ambitious early action to reduce emissions, with 
most emissions reductions occurring within the first half (2020 – 2035) of this 
30-year period.  
• 
Respective capabilities. The pathways in this report are built based on 
detailed bottom-up analysis of the UK’s circumstances, challenges and 
opportunities. This helps inform judgements around the feasible limits for 
ambitious but credible emissions reductions targets in the near-term. Our 
international modelling, set out in section 2, draws out how these relate to 
opportunities in other countries. 
 
Section 2 considers whether the resulting pathways can be considered a ‘fair and 
appropriate’ contribution from the UK, recognising the various accounting 
complexities (Box 7.1).  
 
Box 7.1 
Accounting rules for NDCs  
International accounting conventions mean that the UK NDC is expected to be set as a 
percentage reduction target for the year 2030 with greenhouse gas emissions 
aggregated together, using the global warming potential metric (with a time horizon of 
100 years – GWP100) from the IPCC 5th Assessment Report. This represents an accounting 
change from the current UK inventory basis of aggregating using GWP 100 values from the 
IPCC 4th Assessment Report. The status of emissions from international aviation and 
shipping (IAS) are not explicitly addressed under the Paris Agreement. 
 
• Under the Kyoto Protocol (the agreement that committed developed countries to 
emissions reductions over 2005 – 2012 with an extension to 2020), responsibility for IAS 
emissions was delegated to alternative UN bodies – the International Civil Aviation 
Authority (ICAO) and the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), and parties only 
report their IAS emissions (calculated from the use of bunker fuels) to the UNFCCC as a 
memo item in national inventories that aren’t included within the all-economy total.  
• The status of IAS emissions within NDC targets also remains unclear – most countries’ 
NDCs exclude IAS emissions, although the current EU NDC is aligned to a package to 
achieve a 40% reduction in emissions (relative to 1990) including international aviation 
emissions, but not including shipping emissions. The EU Commission’s recent impact 
assessment for its proposed 55% reduction NDC includes multiple scopes, with extra-EU 
aviation and shipping emissions fully included and excluded from possible scopes for 
the proposed 55% reduction.  
The 2030 percentage reduction consistent with the Balanced Net Zero Pathway varies 
from a 64% reduction from 1990 levels including the UK’s share of IAS emissions to a 68% 
reduction when IAS emissions are excluded from the scope (Figure B7.1). Chapter 10 
discusses the Committee’s recommendation on the appropriate scope for a UK NDC. 
321 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure B7.1 Implications of the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway for UK NDC in 2030 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: ‘IAS’ refers to international aviation and shipping. 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
322 
2. Is the Balanced Pathway a fair and ambitious contribution? 
Under the UNFCCC, the UK is required to justify how its NDC is a ‘fair and ambitious’ 
contribution to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement. This section compares 
the recommended Balanced Net Zero Pathway to global pathways expected to 
achieve the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal. 
 
In this section we set out how we interpret ‘fair and ambitious’ and compare the 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway for consistency on a variety of metrics that capture 
both the economy-wide emissions outcomes and actions underlying this transition.  
 
This is outlined in three sub-sections: 
a) Principles for a ‘fair and ambitious’ contribution 
b) Comparing with global pathways 
c) Comparing with international commitments  
 
a) Principles for a ‘fair and ambitious’ contribution 
The Paris Agreement does not specify how the global goals should be translated to 
national contributions beyond the principles set out in the previous section – Parties 
are themselves required to judge how to balance the different principles, and to 
be accountable for their contributions to domestic and global public opinion.  
In this report we take a hybrid (i.e. top-down and bottom-up) and holistic (i.e. 
considering all aspects of the UK’s contribution to tackling climate change) 
approach to assessing a ‘fair and ambitious’ contribution from the UK to the Paris 
Agreement:  
• 
Recognising the need to go further than global averages. We recognise 
that a robust result from top-down analyses is that a ‘fair’ contribution from 
the UK (alongside other developed nations) is to take responsibility for 
reducing emissions faster than needed from the world as whole to achieve 
the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal (Box 7.2).  
• 
Using bottom-up modelling to test feasibility. We use our bottom-up 
assessment to identify the credible limits of ‘highest possible ambition’ for 
UK (domestic) reductions that are likely to support the global efforts to 
rapidly reduce emissions and reach Net Zero globally. In practice, this will 
mean ambitious but still credible pathways to lead the development and 
deployment of actions to reduce emissions sooner than required from the 
world as a whole. 
• 
Considering all aspects of the UK’s contribution to causing and tackling 
climate change. We also recognise that some top-down allocation 
formulas suggest more ambitious emissions reductions than the Committee 
currently deems credible as the basis for legally binding targets. Therefore, 
we also consider additional contributions that the UK can make to reducing 
global emissions in the round to complement rapid domestic 
decarbonisation. This includes contributions through actions to reduce the 
UK’s overseas consumption emissions and wider international climate 
policy, including climate finance, to support critical parts of the global 
decarbonisation transition.  
 
Countries are required to 
provide justification for how 
they believe their 
commitments are consistent 
with the Paris Agreement.    
We consider fairness and 
ambition in the round 
incorporating top-down 
analyses with bottom-up 
modelling.   
We also consider how best the 
UK can help reduce global 
emissions as fast as possible.  
323 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
This approach is consistent with our approach to identifying 2050 for the UK Net 
Zero target. 2050 was the earliest date for which the Committee judged it was 
credible to set a legally binding target for reducing the UK’s territorial emissions to 
Net Zero, while recognising that some top-down allocations would suggest a larger 
contribution, which at the margin could be delivered better through international 
collaboration, such as climate finance or credit purchase.  
 
Box 7.2 
Top-down equity-based allocations of emissions for the UK  
Top-down analyses using simple metrics for allocating emissions can be used to quantify 
what different equity framings (such as stresses on either equality of the right to emissions, 
responsibility for past emissions, or capability to reduce emissions) would mean for UK 
emissions in 2030 (Figure B7.2). A wide range of answers are possible, depending on the 
aspect of equity stressed and the specifics of the methodology used, but generally 
suggest that the UK should be aiming to do more than the reductions required in the 
global average. These contrast with allocation principles based on equal marginal 
abatement costs, which generally suggest lower levels of emission reductions from 
developed countries like the UK.  
 
The Paris Agreement does not use a defined equity principle to allocate emissions 
reductions to countries. Furthermore, using these top-down allocation methodologies in 
isolation does not capture several aspects key to setting domestic reduction targets 
under the Paris Agreement:  
 
• Respective capabilities and national circumstances. The Paris Agreement recognises 
that the deliverable emissions reductions will depend on specific national 
circumstances that are not captured within these simple allocation formulas. For 
example, where emissions footprints are dominated by sources with av ailable low- or 
no-cost alternatives (e.g. power sector) ‘equal effort’ could mean emissions may 
could fall quicker in the near-term than where dominated by sources with currently 
limited alternatives.  
• Clean growth opportunities. Many simple allocation formulas implicitly assume that 
cutting emissions faster necessarily imposes additional cost and could make 
development objectives more difficult to meet. However, undertaking more ambitious 
emissions reductions in the near-term may in fact have benefits for meeting 
sustainable development objectives.1 Several aspects of the required low-carbon 
transition are now expected to be cost-saving relative to a high-carbon future in large 
parts of the world (e.g. renewable generation for new power system capacity) and 
can bring significant additional benefits, particularly for air quality.2  
• Territorial emissions are only one part of a country’s contribution. Simple allocation 
formulas refer to the emissions reductions that a country is ‘responsible’ for. This can be 
made up of domestic reductions but should also consider a country’s wider 
contribution to tackling climate change through climate finance efforts and funding 
of emissions reduction through international carbon markets. Actions such as funding 
development of a key low-carbon technology may only have a small direct impact 
on global emissions but could be a major contribution to the global effort to tackle 
climate change in the long-run. Developed countries also have a responsibility to be 
supporting adapting to climate changes around the world under the Paris Agreement. 
These factors suggest the need to incorporate insights from top-down equity approaches 
alongside a broader evidence base to assess ‘fairness’ more completely under the Paris 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
Top-down equity-based 
allocations suggest a wide 
range for UK emissions 
reductions to 2030 – but 
generally suggest UK should 
be aiming to do more than the 
world as a whole.  
Using top-down allocations on 
their own does not capture all 
aspects of the Paris 
Agreement.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
324 
Figure B7.2 UK emissions reductions (2030) based 
on top-down equity principles and our  
proposed pathway 
 
Source: du Pont, Y.R. et al. (2016) National contributions for decarbonising the world economy in line with the 
G7 agreement. Environmental Research Letters, 11,5, 054005; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Allocations use a subset of global emissions pathways considered by IPCC-SR15, which have per capita 
emissions reductions slightly lower than the median of the full set of pathways but well within their range. 
Reductions are for all GHGs and expressed as a percentage of 1990 levels of emissions. The proposed Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway for the UK is added here in purple. 
 
 
b) Comparing with global pathways 
 
This sub-section compares the Committee’s recommended Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway for the UK against key metrics of global transitions expected to keep 
warming to the long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement according to 
the IPCC. We consider first aggregate metrics (e.g. for emissions), and then timings 
and scale of required actions (e.g. timing of the switch-over to key low-carbon 
technologies).  
 
i) Comparison on economy-wide emissions  
 
Delivering the Balanced Pathway to the Sixth Carbon Budget would, on a per 
person basis, see the UK catching and then surpassing global pathways expected 
to result in keeping warming to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels (Figure 7.2).  
Table 7.1 summarises several headline comparisons between the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway for the UK and those required globally*:  
 
 
*   In this section we compare with the range of modelled scenarios assessed by the IPCC in the 2018 Special Report on 
Global Warming of 1.5°C. These scenarios allocate effort amongst regions, gases and sectors to minimise the 
modelled global cost of the transition.  
325 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Date of Net Zero. The UK has legislated an earlier date to reach Net Zero 
than required for the world to keep warming to below 1.5°C (with ~50% 
probability). It is around two decades ahead for aggregated GHG 
emissions, and the scenarios in this report imply it would be around five 
years earlier for CO2.*  
• 
Emissions reductions to 2030. The IPCC identified pathways with no or 
limited overshoot of 1.5°C as requiring global aggregated GHG emissions to 
fall by around 45% from 2010 to 2030. The UK scenarios in this report see 
GHG emissions fall by around 55% in the same period. A smaller 
percentage reduction in UK emissions over 2020 - 2030 than required for the 
world as a whole reflects a significantly higher level of per person emissions 
in the UK than for the global average in 2010.  
• 
Emissions per person. Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway implies aggregated 
GHG emissions per person of around 2.7 tCO2e per person in 2035 (the 
central year of the Sixth Carbon Budget period), consistent with the global 
average level in pathways expected to keep warming to 1.5°C. Per person 
emissions are generally higher in the UK Balanced Net Zero Pathway than in 
the 1.5°C consistent pathways prior to this date and lower afterwards.  
• 
Cumulative emissions. The UK’s cumulative emissions of CO2 and long-lived 
GHGs from now to 2050 would be below the global per person averages 
for pathways limiting temperature rise to well below 2°C, but above those 
for 1.5°C (although just within the scenario range for each).† This in part 
reflects the UK’s higher per person emissions today, particularly for CO2 
emissions. Important sources of emissions reductions for the world over the 
next decade under 1.5°C-aligned scenarios have already been deployed 
in the UK (e.g. closure of coal-based power generation) or are not 
geographically applicable (e.g. ending deforestation), with continued 
reductions in UK per person emissions depending on emissions reductions 
from sectors that have not yet seen emissions declines (e.g. transport and 
buildings), with an inevitable lag for policy actions taken immediately to 
feed through the capital stock and result in significant emissions reductions.  
 
These high-level metrics demonstrate that the domestic emissions outcomes from 
the Balanced Net Zero Pathway are broadly aligned to global pathways for the 
Paris Agreement, including the 1.5°C goal. Any slower reductions to 2035 would 
bring into question whether the UK could be credibly considered to be pursuing 
efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C, given that the UK is expected to have higher per 
person emissions than the global average under 1.5°C consistent scenarios prior to 
this date. The Balanced Net Zero Pathway should be considered as the minimum 
level of ambition for the transition to Net Zero. Where opportunities to reduce 
emissions further (e.g. as considered in our Tailwinds scenario) are uncovered, 
these should be pursued. 
 
 
 
 
*   Some global scenarios keeping warming to below 1.5°C do not reach Net Zero GHG emissions by 2100, nor do the 
majority keeping warming well-below 2°C.  
†   In this report we interpret ‘well-below’ 2°C in the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal as bounded on the 
high at least a 66% probability of keeping peak warming below 2°C, consistent with our interpretation in the 2019 
Net Zero report. 
Our proposed Sixth Carbon 
Budget would see the UK have 
similar per person emissions as 
required from the world as a 
whole to keep warming to 
below 1.5°C. 
Slower UK emissions reductions 
would bring into question 
whether the UK was being 
sufficiently ambitious.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
326 
Table 7.1  
Economy-wide emissions comparisons between the Balanced Net Zero Pathway and global scenarios consistent with 
the Paris Agreement 
 
UK – 
Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Global average - 
~50% 1.5°C 
Global average - 
>66% 2°C 
Cumulative CO2 emissions (2020 – 2050)  
[tCO2/person] 
64 
47 (21 - 66) 
73 (54 - 96) 
Cumulative long-lived GHG emissions (2020 – 2050) 
[tCO2e/person] 
71 
54 (28 - 73) 
81 (60 - 104) 
Rate of CH4 emissions (2050) [tCO2e/person/yr] 
 
0.5 
0.6 (0.3 – 0.9) 
0.7 (0.5 – 1.3) 
Aggregated GHG emissions (2030) [tCO2e/person/yr] 
 
4.5 
3.5 (2.5 – 4.4) 
4.8 (3.2 – 7.5) 
Aggregated GHG emissions (2035) 
[tCO2e/person/yr] 
2.7 
2.6 (1.5 – 3.7) 
4.0 (2.6 – 5.9) 
% reduction from 1990 (2030) 
 
64% 
25% (8% - 45%) 
-2% (-57% - 31%) 
% reduction from 2010 (2030) 
 
54% 
45% (33% - 60%) 
25% (-15% - 50%) 
% reduction from 2020 (2030) 
 
36% 
46% (31% – 63%) 
33% (-1% - 49%) 
Date of Net Zero CO2 emissions 
 
2044 
2050 (2037 -2082) 
2074 (2050 -2100+) 
Date of Net Zero long-lived GHG emissions 
2045 
2059 (2039 – 
2100+) 
2100+ (2055 – 
2100+) 
Date of Net Zero aggregated GHG emissions 
 
2050 
2071 (2048 -2100+) 
2100+ (2079 -2100+) 
 
Source: CCC analysis, Huppmann, D. et al. (2018) A new scenario resource for integrated 1.5°C research. Nature Climate Change, 8 (12), 1027. 
Notes: Cumulative emissions per person over the 2020 – 2050 period are evaluated using expected 2050 population sizes. GHG emissions are 
aggregated using GWP100 values from the IPCC 5th Assessment Report (with climate-carbon feedbacks). Long-lived GHG emissions here include carbon 
dioxide and nitrous oxide.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
327 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 7.2 Global emissions pathways (per person) 
consistent with the Paris Agreement 
 
Source: CCC analysis. Huppmann, D, et.al. (2018) A new scenario resource for integrated 1.50C research. Nature 
Climate Change, 8 (12), 1027; Olivier, J. & Peters, J. (2019) Trends in global CO2 and total greenhouse gas emissions. 
Notes: Aggregation of greenhouse gas emissions is done using the global warming potential metric at time horizon 
of 100 years. Values from the IPCC 5th Assessment report (with climate-carbon feedbacks) are used. Minimum and 
maximum ranges are used across the global emissions scenario categories used by the IPCC Special Report on 
Global Warming of 1.50C. These figures do not include the uncertain of COVID-19 on 2020 emissions. 
 
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
328 
ii) Comparison on deployment rates 
 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway would see the UK taking actions earlier than 
required for the global average in pathways expected to keep warming to below 
1.5°C (Table 7.2).  
• 
Power sector: Power sector decarbonisation under the Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway would be well advanced by 2030 with renewable sources the 
cheapest form of new power generation in the UK. This would keep the UK 
ahead of a global transition aligned to 1.5°C on all power sector metrics.  
• 
Decarbonising household heating and transport: Decarbonisation options in 
these sectors are now starting to be available at scale with low or no 
additional cost. The UK has high per person emissions in these sectors 
compared to the global average highlighting the importance of the UK 
pushing ahead with deploying low-carbon options more rapidly.  
– Close to half of the UK fleet of passenger vehicles could be electric 
(both battery and plug-in hybrid) by 2030, considerably more than in 
the global average and consistent with that expected from 
developed regions such as the EU (40-55%) as part of the global 
scenarios.  
– UK heat pump installations would reach over one million a year by 
2030 under the Balanced Pathway. This would be 1.7% of the global 
total installations consistent with a scenario keeping warming ‘well-
below’ 2°C and 1.4% for a scenario expected to keep warming to 
1.5°C.  
• 
Deeper decarbonisation options: The Balanced Net Zero Pathway would 
see the UK deploy deeper decarbonisation options (e.g. carbon capture 
and storage (CCS), low-carbon hydrogen, and engineered greenhouse 
gas removals) at-scale ahead of the global average. These aspects of the 
decarbonisation challenge currently continue to have some costs relative 
to high carbon alternatives but are expected to be significant for the 
global effort to keep to the Paris Agreement, particularly after 2030 (section 
3).  
 
Moving ahead of the global average in the deployment of these options does not 
mean that this imposes an additional burden on the UK. Our analysis throughout 
this report suggests that many aspects of this transition will be cost saving and have 
additional co-benefits associated with them. The overall impact on UK GDP could 
be very limited or an overall boost to the UK economy (Chapter 5).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Balanced Pathway would 
see the UK decarbonising its 
economy more rapidly than 
for the world in 1.5°C 
scenarios.  
Progress in developing and 
deploying deeper 
decarbonisation options in the 
UK could be a critical 
contribution to achieving the 
Paris Agreement.  
Moving faster than the world 
as whole does not mean this 
would be a burden on the UK.     
329 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 7.2 
Comparison of the UK decarbonisation actions with global average pathways 
 
UK - Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway 
Global average - 
~50% 1.5°C 
Global average - 
>66% 2°C 
Coal % of electricity generation – 2030 
 
0% (from 2024) 
8%1 
13%1 
Low-carbon % of generation - 20301 
 
87% 
72%1 
67%1 
EV % of fleet - 2030  
 
43% 
20 - 40%2 
13%3 
EV % of sales – 2030 
 
97% 
52%3 
40%3 
CCS per capita - 2030 (tCO2/person/yr) 
 
0.32 
0.251 
0.11 
Heat pump installation rate - 2030 (heat 
pumps/thousand people/yr) 
15.3 
8.83 
7.73 
Low-carbon hydrogen production - 2030 (kg / 
person /yr) 
10.7 
- 
0.93 
Engineered removals per capita - 2030 
(tCO2/person/yr) 
0.07 
0.041 
0.011  
 
Source: CCC analysis; 1Huppmann, D. et al. (2018) A new scenario resource for integrated 1.5°C research. Nature Climate Change, 8 (12), 1027; 2Climate 
Action Tracker Initiative (2020) Paris Agreement Compatible Sectoral Benchmarks; 3IEA (2020) World Energy Outlook 2020 
Notes: Electric car fleet figures here include plug-in hybrids. For Europe as a whole, the Climate Action Tracker analysis suggests a benchmark of 40 – 
55%. Median figures are used for the IPCC-SR1.5 pathways, with a wide range around these medians across the scenario ensemble. CCS is often used 
extensively within IPCC-SR1.5 pathways and to greater extents than in other global pathways (e.g. those from the IEA).  
   
 
 
 
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
330 
c) Comparing ambition to international commitments  
 
Our proposed Balanced Net Zero Pathway would place the UK in line with the most 
ambitious current and expected commitments for 2030 from other similar countries 
also targeting Net Zero by 2050 (Table 7.3): 
• 
Emissions targets for the UK set on the Balanced Net Zero Pathway would 
put the UK ahead of existing targets from other similar large European 
countries and ambitious US states, both in terms of progress reducing 
emissions since the base year (1990) and in percentage reductions from 
2018 levels. 
• 
As part of the wider EU package to increase NDC ambition, countries such 
as France and Germany may be required to set more stringent targets than 
current ones. Any increase in ambition from these countries is still to be 
determined, but an additional 15% increase in 2030 targets (consistent with 
the proposed EU-wide increase in ambition) would still leave the UK with 
highly competitive emissions reduction targets across a set of metrics and 
well placed amongst a group of ambitious countries.   
 
We also estimate that our proposed UK NDC, based on the Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway, is at least as ambitious, than would have been required from the UK as a 
contribution to the proposed strengthened EU NDC (a 55% reduction from 1990 
levels – increased from a 40% reduction currently) if the EU were to use a similar 
approach to allocating this effort to member states as under the previous target 
(Box 7.3).  
 
Table 7.3 
Comparison to existing and proposed international targets for 2030 
 
% reduction vs 
1990 levels  
% reduction vs 
2018 levels 
Emissions per person 
(tCO2e per capita)  
Emissions per unit 
GDP (tCO2e per $m) 
European Union (proposed) 
55% 
39% 
6.0 
110 
France (current)  
40%  
27% 
5.1 
110 
Germany (current)  
55%  
34% 
7.1 
140 
France (+15%) 
55% 
45% 
3.8 
80 
Germany (+15%) 
70% 
56% 
4.7 
90 
California 
40% 
39% 
5.9 
 - 
New York State 
40% 
31% 
7.1 
 - 
UK – Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway 
68% 
44% 
3.9 
80 
 
Source: CCC analysis; UNFCCC GHG inventories; OECD (2018) GDP long-term forecast (indicator); World Bank Population Projections. 
Notes: Emissions are aggregated using IPCC-AR5 global warming potential (100-year time horizon) values – including carbon-climate feedbacks – to aid 
comparability to the Balanced Net Zero Pathway. For New York State the second column evaluates emissions reduction relative to 2016. The most recent 
year of GHG inventory data. LULUCF and IAS emission are removed from the Balanced Net Zero Pathway to aid comparison with other targets excluding 
these emissions sources – these are also excluded from the EU target for the purposes of this table. Population projections are taken from World Bank 
Projections and GDP projections from OECD long-term forecast.  
 
 
 
 
Our Balanced Pathway is at 
least as ambitious as what 
would have been needed 
from the UK as an EU member 
state.  
Our Balanced Pathway would 
leave the UK with highly 
competitive targets 
internationally. 
331
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Box 7.3:  
What would have been the UK’s share of the EU 55% reduction target? 
The European Commission has recently proposed to update the EU’s NDC for 2030 to a 
55% reduction relative to 1990 levels, from the current 40% reduction.* This now needs to 
be agreed amongst the member states at the European Council, and then new targets 
for the EU Emissions Trading System (EU-ETS) and individual member states in the non-ETS 
and LULUCF sectors agreed to achieve it. Based on the previous methodology for the 
2030 target it is possible to estimate what might have been the UK’s share if it was still an 
EU member state: 
•
ETS sectors are expected to have to decline by between 58-65% in modelling to 
achieve the EU wide goals.3 Assuming a similar UK share of the ETS cap as in the advice 
on the Fifth Carbon Budget then UK ‘traded sector’ emissions would have to fall to 
between 80 - 91 MtCO2e/yr by 2030.
•
Non-ETS sectors have been allocated to member states in the past based on relative 
differences in average GDP per person. For the proposed 55% EU reduction the 
member state allocations are yet to be determined, but allocation based on a similar 
methodology to the current 2030 target would suggest a UK reduction in the region of 
53 - 62% below 2005 levels, depending on the range of possible contributions from non-
ETS sectors to the overall target. A more complex allocation mechanism may be 
required for the non-ETS sectors for the strengthened 2030 target to effectively capture 
differences in cost effective abatement options between member states in non-ETS 
sectors.
•
Land-use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) emissions have only been included 
within the current EU 2030 package based on a ‘no-debt’ rule to date. The EU 
Commission has now proposed to include fully LULUCF within the accounting for the 
revised 55% target. 
Overall, we estimate that the UK’s share would have been around a 65 - 69% reduction, 
excluding emissions from international aviation and shipping (but including LULUCF 
emissions) if it was still an EU member state.  
While the Balanced Pathway requires the UK to go further and faster in the low-
carbon transition, it is not out of step with the pace and scale of change expected 
in other comparable economies considering their own pathways to Net Zero by 
2050. 
•
Phase out of the sale of high-carbon assets. Ending petrol and diesel car
sales by the mid-2030s has been committed to by many Governments.
Many European countries have committed to this by 2030, including
Denmark, Ireland, the Netherlands and now the UK, with Norway having
the most ambitious date of 2025.4 California has made a recent
commitment to achieve this by 2035. European countries are also starting
to propose the phase outs of fossil fuel heating systems. The Netherlands is
developing legislation to ensure new homes are no longer connected to
the gas grid ahead of the 2025 phase out date shared by Ireland’s and the
UK’s current Future Homes Standard.
•
Scale up deployment of low-carbon technology. Other countries are also
planning for high penetration of renewable electricity generation by 2030.
Germany is expected to achieve a 65% renewable share, similar to the UK
under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, with higher shares anticipated in
other European countries such as Spain (74%) and the Netherlands (70%).5
Proposals for deeper decarbonisation in other countries are also being
developed.
* Several scopes for this target have been proposed in the Commissions impact assessment including with and without 
emissions from international aviation and navigation (shipping). 
Other countries are also 
making or considering similarly 
ambitious actions to deliver 
their own decarbonisation 
targets.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
332 
By 2030, significant electrolyser capacity (for hydrogen production) is being 
planned for in both France and Germany (5 GW and 6.5 GW respectively) 
and the European Commission has recently released a new hydrogen 
strategy aiming to reach 40 GW of electrolyser capacity across the EU.6 
Norway has committed to developing a full-scale carbon capture and 
storage supply chain with capacity of up to 5 MtCO2 per year, which would 
be just under half of what the UK would be expected to deliver under the 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway by 2030.  
 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway, and an NDC based on it, would leave the UK 
well-placed to support raising international ambition as the host of COP26 and 
President of the G7. The UK would not be doing this alone. Other countries and 
regions are committing to similarly ambitious transitions over the next decade, 
highlighting the growing international momentum behind delivering the scale and 
speed of transition outlined in our scenarios. Adopting lower ambition for 2030 
would limit the UK’s ability to credibly call for the raising of ambition to the level 
required globally, and risk being left behind by similar economies, missing out on 
the clean growth opportunities that the transition is expected to bring.  
 
 
 
Ambition at the level of our 
Balanced Pathway will be 
necessary for the UK to support 
the global effort as host of the 
international negotiations in 
2021.   
333 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
3. Supporting global efforts to reduce emissions  
In this section we look at what would be needed from the rest of the world to 
deliver on the overall ambition of the Paris Agreement and how the UK can 
support this. If other developed countries adopted pathways with similar ambition 
and developing countries followed rapidly soon after, then the global temperature 
rise can be limited to well below 2°C. Achieving a 1.5°C temperature goal will likely 
need maximum ambition in every sector and every region. It will be important that 
large emerging economies with most capability contribute significant ambition. 
The proposed UK ambition within the Balanced Net Zero Pathway should 
encourage this and will be expected of the UK with its role as COP26 President. 
 
There are two subsections: 
a) A global pathway to deliver on the Paris Agreement 
b) UK action to support the global effort  
 
a) A global pathway to deliver on the Paris Agreement  
 
This subsection lays out the key aspects of the global transition to achieve the Paris 
Agreement. There are three parts to it: 
i) Introducing ‘leadership’ to Paris-aligned global pathways 
ii) Key elements of the global decarbonisation transition  
iii) Additional efforts for pursuing 1.5°C 
 
i) Introducing ‘leadership’ to Paris-aligned global pathways 
 
Most pathways of a global transition expected to be consistent with the Paris 
Agreement use a cost-effective framework, meaning that modelled cost is the 
only factor used to allocate emissions reductions across regions, sectors and gases. 
We developed the concept of ‘leadership-driven’ pathways within our advice on 
setting a Net Zero target for the UK in 2019, which aim to build-in aspects of other 
important factors (e.g. obligations for developed country leadership) into the 
scenario. We commissioned Vivid Economics and UCL to further develop this 
framework for this report.7 These scenarios contained three groups of regions, 
broadly aligned to the principles of the Paris Agreement (Figure 7.3): 
• 
Developed regions take the lead in deploying the solutions that are 
necessary to reduce emissions globally and reach Net Zero emissions first. In 
accordance with many emerging commitments, these regions achieve or 
go beyond Net Zero CO2 emissions by 2050. Near-term emissions reductions 
are made consistent with achieving these 2050 objectives and keeping 
warming to the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal.  
• 
Large industrial economies, which includes China, represent a large 
fraction of future cumulative CO2 emissions and will be very important for 
the future global emissions trajectory. Keeping warming to the long-term 
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement requires that they peak their 
emissions very soon (significantly improving on their current NDCs) and 
reduce them rapidly in the next two decades to reach Net Zero CO2 
emissions around 2050 - 2070.  
We consider what needs to 
happen globally to achieve 
the Paris Agreement to identify 
how the UK can support this.   
We build in aspects of 
leadership from developed 
countries into our modelled 
pathways of the global effort.        
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
334 
• 
Developing regions 'leapfrog' to low-carbon development paths. Emissions 
remain low on a per capita basis, but do not need to reach Net Zero CO2 
until around 2070, and some may not reach Net Zero before 2100. 
Opportunities for low-cost emissions reduction are taken within these 
regions, in line with the requirement for highest possible ambition. Some 
more expensive options are also required in developing nations, but these 
tend to happen after earlier deployment in developed nations and could 
be supported (in part) by mechanisms such as climate finance and 
emissions trading. 
 
This hybrid scenario represents a plausible global transition pathway towards the 
long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement. At a global level, this scenario 
would see CO2 emissions rapidly fall from 2020 to reach close to Net Zero by 2060 
(Figure 7.4) with rapid and deep reduction in non-CO2 emissions alongside. This 
would be expected to keep warming to the 1.5°C to 2°C corridor of the Paris 
Agreement long-term temperature goal (Chapter 8).*  
 
Figure 7.3 Modelled regional per person CO2  
emissions in a ‘leadership-driven’ scenario 
consistent with the Paris Agreement 
 
Source: Vivid Economics (2020) Unpacking leadership-driven scenarios towards the Paris Agreement; CCC analysis. 
Notes: The UK trajectory is the Balanced Net Zero Pathway with all other regions taken from modelling with TIAM 
integrated assessment model. Only CO2 emissions are shown in this figure. The large sink of emissions for the 
‘Central and South America’ region is associated with a modelled transition to a large land sink in that region. 
 
 
 
 
 
*   Within the model a constraint is applied to keep global cumulative emissions to the remaining carbon budgets for a 
50% probability of keeping warming to below 1.75°C from IPCC-SR1.5, we explore the range of climate outcomes 
consistent with this global emissions pathway in Chapter 8.  
335 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
ii) Key elements of the global decarbonisation transition 
 
The cumulative nature of how long-lived GHGs (such as CO2) impact the climate 
(Chapter 8) means global emissions must be aligned to Paris-consistent pathways 
over the full time period to Net Zero. It is not enough just to aim to reach Net Zero 
by or soon after 2050 without consistent effort in the near-term.  
 
Figure 7.4 Global CO2  emissions in a  
‘leadership-driven’ Paris Agreement scenario  
and under current global ambition 
 
Source: Vivid Economics (2020) Unpacking leadership-driven scenarios towards the Paris Agreement. 
Notes: Current global ambition is modelled through constraints requiring regional emissions to match those from 
current NDCs in 2030 followed by further improvements in the overall emissions intensity of the economy after 2030 
consistent with the improvement over 2020-2030 needed to meet current NDC targets. Pledged targets for Net 
Zero are not included. 
 
Delivering the necessary near-term emissions reduction for this Paris-aligned global 
transition would require a rapid scaling up of action across the global economy 
over the next decade. Key wedges of abatement are expected to come from 
rapid reductions in coal-fired electricity generation, expansion of electricity systems 
in a low-carbon way, the rapid roll-out of electric vehicles, efficiency in building 
and industry, and a reduction in deforestation to reduce global land-use emissions 
(Box 7.4).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global near-term emissions 
reductions are essential. Only 
reaching Net Zero on time 
without near-term action isn’t 
enough to deliver on the Paris 
Agreement.  
A very rapid scaling-up of 
global ambition, particularly in 
the power sector, will be 
needed over the next 
decade.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
336 
Box 7.4 
Key wedges of increased global ambition over the 2020s.  
Despite a wide range of modelled pathways to achieve the Paris Agreement, most share 
common features for key changes required over the coming decade:  
 
• Rapid and large reductions in electricity from unabated coal. Electricity generation 
from coal drops by around 55% – 65% over 2020 – 2030 for global scenarios that keep 
warming to 1.5°C and ‘well-below’ 2°C respectively.8 However, only 16% of global 
installed capacity is expected to shut down by 2030 under normal economic coal 
plant lifetimes.9 Significantly accelerated retirement (or retrofitting with CCS) of existing 
plants will be needed, as well as current pipelines of unabated new coal power to not 
go ahead. Low-cost renewables are now starting to undercut the cost of electricity 
generation from existing coal plant, but significant additional barriers remain to 
reducing existing coal capacity particularly in regions of the world with very young 
coal fleets.10 Finding ways to rapidly switch away from coal electricity generation is 
the single biggest contribution to reductions in global cumulative emissions.    
• Low-carbon sources meet the need for increased power system capacity. Global 
demand for electricity grows by around 15% over 2020 – 2030 in typical modelled 
pathways consistent with keeping warming to 1.5°C.11 This is lower than the rate in 
current policy scenarios due to the important role of end-use efficiency to limit energy 
demand growth.12 The large majority of this demand growth will be in developing 
countries as living standards rise. This increasing overall demand needs to be met by 
low-carbon sources as well as compensating for the electricity generation from early 
retirements of coal power. Falls in the costs of renewable electricity has helped make 
this transition more feasible than was envisaged only a few years ago, The lowest-cost 
sources of renewables are as cheap as, or cheaper than, new fossil-fuel alternatives in 
countries containing around two-thirds of the world’s population according to recent 
analysis (based on fossil fuel prices in 2019).13  
• Accelerated uptake of electric vehicles (EVs). Keeping road transport emissions low 
whilst global mobility rises will require a large increase in the fraction of car sales that 
are electric alongside the rapidly decarbonising and expanding global electricity 
systems. Over 40% of global passenger vehicle sales by 2030 would likely have to be 
EVs, rising from just 2% today, under Paris-aligned pathways according to the IEA. The 
emerging cost-competitiveness of EVs with internal combustion engine-driven cars 
due to falling battery costs will help provide momentum to this transition.  
• Reducing deforestation and better management of land. Currently CO2 emissions from 
land-use change and forestry are about 13% of the total global GHG emissions, arising 
primarily from tropical deforestation of very high carbon content land. Most global 
pathways consistent with the long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement 
transform this net source of emissions into a net sink over the next few decades. 
Reduced rates of deforestation can make a large contribution to this, and if 
implemented in ways that are mindful of other uses of land and barriers to action, can 
contribute to wider sustainable development goals.14   
The reducing costs of low-carbon technologies and wider alignment with sustainable 
development objectives indicate that a rapid scaling-up of global decarbonisation 
action this decade could be possible and desirable. The required pace of change will 
require a large and rapid shift in global investment patterns to make it happen.  
 
 
The key technologies to enable this rapid transition over the next decade are now 
largely widely available with little or no additional cost over a high carbon 
alternative, due to rapid falls in costs over the past decade.15 Some additional 
investment is required, but most importantly a shift is needed in the pattern of 
investment away from unabated fossil fuel power and towards low-carbon 
technologies.16  
 
 
 
 
337 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
From 2030-onwards, global deployment of additional deeper decarbonisation 
technologies will be needed to maintain global emissions reductions and move 
towards Net Zero emissions globally:  
• 
Expansion of low-carbon electricity systems enables electrification to 
decarbonise much of end-sectors such as transport, buildings and industrial 
processes.  
• 
A global hydrogen economy is likely to be required to decarbonise areas 
where electrification may be challenging (e.g. some parts of industry, long-
distance heavy goods vehicles) and to provide flexibility in high variable 
renewable power systems.  
• 
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is required to deal with process 
emissions in industry and enables at-scale active removal of CO2 from the 
air (e.g. biomass energy with carbon capture and storage – BECCS - or 
direct air capture), a necessary feature of most pathways that reach 
global Net Zero CO2 emissions.  
 
Many of these technologies are available at protype or demonstration stage 
today but have not yet been deployed at significant scale. Our modelled global 
‘leadership’ transition involves a higher and earlier concentrations of these ‘harder’ 
decarbonisation actions in the developed regions of the world. Early actions over 
the 2020s by developed regions, consistent with their responsibilities under the Paris 
Agreement, are likely to have an important role in driving forward the necessary 
developments and cost reductions to make subsequent global deployment more 
possible. 
 
Progress is currently being made on many of these fronts, for example:  
• 
The heat pump installation market is rapidly expanding in Europe, with 
around a 12% annual average growth since 2015 with Scandinavian 
countries having some highest penetration rates.17  
• 
Announced plans for low-carbon hydrogen production indicate that global 
production would quadruple by 2023. Several large European countries 
have announced plans to scale-up hydrogen use, along with the European 
Union.18  
• 
The first large-scale (1 MtCO2/yr) direct air capture plant could be 
operational in the USA by 2023. The UK has plans to deploy large-scale 
carbon removal through BECCS over the 2020s and beyond.19  
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway aims to ensure that the UK helps to drive forward 
developments in these key technologies over the 2020s. Slower deployment of 
these technologies than in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway would risk undermining 
the plausibility of the necessary post-2030 global transition to keep warming to the 
long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement.  
 
 
 
Deeper decarbonisation 
technologies will be needed 
at global scale, particularly 
after 2030.  
Action by developed countries 
over the 2020s will be 
important for enabling this 
rapid global roll-out of new 
decarbonisation technologies 
from 2030 onwards.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
338 
iii) Additional efforts for pursuing 1.5°C 
 
Keeping peak warming to below 1.5°C will likely require additional ambition 
beyond the ‘leadership-driven’ scenario outlined previously.* This would require 
global Net Zero CO2 to be reached earlier (around 2050) and more rapid global 
emissions reductions on the path to Net Zero. 
 
In models able to simulate this level of ambition there are two key aspects to this 
additional ambition:  
• 
All regions reach Net Zero CO2 emissions around 2050. Published scenarios 
capable of achieving this level of additional ambition generally show all 
regions converging to reach Net Zero CO2 emissions around 2050, with very 
little variation between them.  
• 
Significantly increased global ambition prior to 2030. Significant extra 
ambition in the global power sector is likely to be necessary to achieve this. 
According to the IEA World Energy Outlook 2020, global power sector CO2 
emissions would need to fall by 60% over 2019 – 2030, with power 
generation from unabated coal essentially ended by this date. Around half 
of new car sales globally would need to be electric by 2030 relative to 
around 40% in below 2°C scenarios. The switch to low-carbon fuels in global 
industry is likely to need to have made significant progress by 2030. 
Changes on the demand-side are also key. 
 
Further accelerations in domestic emissions reductions by developed regions 
beyond the levels in this scenario can only play a marginal role in delivering this 
additional ambition need for a fully 1.5°C aligned transition, due to the declining 
share of emissions they will comprise, although additional opportunities to reduce 
their emissions should be taken where they become feasible.† For this ambition to 
be realised it will be essential for all mitigation actions to proceed immediately in 
all global regions with no significant space for differing dates of deployment across 
the world. Developed regions will need to provide additional support for this 
required global increase in effort.  
 
 
 
 
 
*   Significant net negative global CO2 emissions after reaching global Net Zero could help decline global warming 
back to 1.5°C after peaking at higher levels but would not significantly affect the level of peak warming reached.  
†   Only around 25% of cumulative CO2 emissions come from developed regions in our simulated Paris Agreement 
scenario over 2020 – 2050.  
Fully aligning the global effort 
with 1.5°C allows very little 
space for different speeds of 
reduction in different regions.   
Even faster emissions 
reductions in developed 
regions could only play a 
limited role in the additional 
global ambition needed for 
1.5C, but their support of the 
global effort will be essential.        
339 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) UK action to support the global effort 
 
i) The need for additional global ambition 
 
Significant new Net Zero pledges from large emitters (Box 7.5) are, if delivered, 
starting to align global mid-century ambition with that needed to halt global 
warming in time to deliver on the Paris Agreement. However, the expected level of 
global emissions in 2030 remains significantly above those consistent with pathways 
expected to keep warming to the long-term temperature goal of the Paris 
Agreement (Figure 7.5). To date only 15 Parties (4.6% of global emissions) have 
submitted revised NDCs for 2030 with only 33 additional countries committed to 
updating their NDC by 2020.20 Many countries, including most of the big emitters 
are now not expected to revise their NDC by the 2020 deadline set under the 
UNFCCC with many now expected in 2021.  
 
Figure 7.5 Global greenhouse emissions in 2030 
compared to Paris Agreement-aligned scenarios 
 
Source: Climate Action Tracker (2020) CAT Emissions Gaps: September 2020 update; United Nations Environment 
Programme (2019) Emissions Gap Report 2019; Huppmann, D. et.al. (2018) A new scenario resource for integrated 
1.50C research. Nature Climate Change, 9 (12), 1027. 
Notes: Assessment of the ‘No-policy baseline’ from UNEP Emissions Gap Report 2019. ‘Current policies’ and 
‘Submitted NDCs’ are from the Climate Action Tracker. Aggregated 2030 emissions levels for Paris Agreement 
compatible scenarios are from the IPCC-SR15 >66% 20C and >50% 1.50C low or no overshoot categories. GWP 100 
values from the IPCC 4th Assessment Report are used to aggregate gases. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expected global emissions for 
2030 remain above those 
consistent with pathways 
keeping to the Paris 
Agreement.          
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
340 
Box 7.5  
New Net Zero commitments and 2030 ambition in high emitting regions  
Closing the gap between current trajectories and those expected to achieve the Paris 
Agreement will require increased ambition across the world, but particularly so in the 
large emitters. G20 countries make up 78% of global GHG emissions, with around half of 
global emissions coming from the largest four emitters (China, USA, EU and India).  
 
There has been developing ambition across several large emitters over the last year:  
 
• China (25% of global emissions) has recently announced that it intends to reach 
carbon-neutrality by 2060 as well as committing to enhancing its 2030 ambition. Given 
the size of China’s emissions, achieving its carbon-neutrality aim would be expected 
to reduce global temperatures by 0.2 - 0.3°C.21 However, what China does in the next 
10-15 years matters hugely given the scale of Chinese emissions. China’s response to 
the pandemic to date has seen emissions rebound beyond pre-COVID-19 levels and a 
large increase in permitting for new coal fired power plants.22  
• USA (12.5% of global emissions) The incoming Democrat administration has an 
ambition to ‘put the United States on an irreversible path to achieve Net Zero 
emissions, economy-wide, by no later than 2050’, and is also expected to re-join the 
Paris Agreement. There has not yet been a proposed new NDC target for 2030, but 
the incoming administration has also expressed an ambition to achieve carbon-free 
power by 2035 (power sector emissions were 27% of US GHG emissions in 2018).23 
• The European Union (8% of global emissions) is currently considering raising its NDC 
ambition to a 55% reduction (relative to 1990 levels) from the current 40% 
commitment. The EU Commission has also proposed a new climate law and European 
Green Deal framework to help achieve it and to give the 2050 Net Zero objective 
legal status. The European Green Deal framework includes a substantial international 
facing component, including a proposed carbon border tax to help increase 
international ambition in trade-exposed sectors and prevent carbon leakage.  
• India (7% of global emissions) has not yet indicated that it will increase its 2030 NDC 
ambition. It remains on track to overachieve its NDC commitments but there is 
significant scope for this to become more ambitious. India is yet to announce a Net 
Zero target. 
• Japan (3% of global emissions) has recently pledged to become carbon neutral by 
2050, requiring the country to transition away from coal power which currently is a 
significant fraction (approximately one-third) of its electricity mix. Prior to the 
announcement of the 2050 carbon-neutrality target Japan had already resubmitted 
its 2030 NDC without increasing ambition from the levels pledged in 2015.  
• South Korea (1.3% of global emissions) has recently pledged to become carbon 
neutral by 2050 and has proposed a Green New Deal to invest in low -carbon 
infrastructure and shift away from coal power. The proposed Green New Deal also 
signals a planned end to the financing of coal power plants overseas. 
Including the USA, around 75% of global GDP is now covered by Net Zero targets for mid-
century and over 60% of global CO2 emissions.  
 
 
ii) Opportunities for UK action to help global effort  
 
We commissioned work from Vivid Economics and UCL to identify ways through 
which developed countries like the UK could support the necessary increases in 
global ambition to achieve the Paris Agreement. This independent piece of work is 
published alongside our Sixth Carbon Budget advice.24 A short summary of this 
report is provided in Box 7.6.  
 
 
There is growing momentum 
behind Net Zero targets for 
mid-century in the biggest 
emitting countries and regions, 
but only limited indications of 
plans to raise 2030 ambition.           
341 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Box 7.6  
Unpacking leadership-driven global pathways towards the Paris Agreement  
Research commissioned by the Committee to support its work on the Sixth Carbon 
Budget developed a categorisation of actions for how a developed country such as the 
UK can support the global effort to raise ambition: 
 
• Demonstrating Net Zero: Ambitious domestic emissions reductions can help develop 
technologies and bring their costs down.  
• Diplomatic influencing: Accelerating decarbonisation efforts around the world 
through formal and informal diplomatic channels, including multilaterally (e.g. through 
the UNFCCC) and bilaterally.  
• Trade measures: Implementing carbon pricing and/or product standards on imported 
products through trade deals could provide an incentive to accelerate the 
decarbonisation of global production processes.  
• Capacity building: Providing technical assistance to other countries to help develop 
their capacity and capability in introducing climate mitigation solutions.  
• Direct financial support: Financial transfers to directly fund the deployment of low and 
Net Zero carbon technology elsewhere in the world.  
• Action on overseas supply chains: Addressing the overseas emissions ‘embedded’ 
within global supply chains of products consumed by the UK.  
The most effective ways to assist global decarbonisation will vary across key ‘wedges’ of 
the global transition. For example, areas with more global interconnectedness will likely 
have a greater role for trade-related levers, while capacity building will be essential 
where there are large non-cost barriers to overcome.  
The report identified a wide range of actions that developed countries could take to 
support important parts of the global transition in a ‘leadership-driven’ scenario. These 
include capacity building to help enable the rapid shift to stable high variable 
renewable electricity systems in the developing world, coordinated trade measures by 
developed countries to develop large markets for low-carbon manufactured products 
and drive changes in production methods elsewhere in the world, and setting high 
standards for the global trade of biomass, carbon removals and offset credits to ensure 
that these deliver true benefits for the climate.  
For the UK specifically this report highlights opportunities in:  
• Coal phase out diplomacy. Rapidly ending power generation from coal is the single 
biggest contributor to aligning global trajectories with those expected to deliver on 
the Paris Agreement, requiring retirements in Asian countries with young coal fleets. 
The UK can help others learn from its own experience phasing out coal.  
• Building on UK experience to help offshore wind to play a large role in global low -
carbon power generation. 
• Leading the development of CCS and low-carbon hydrogen technologies given the 
UK’s access to geological carbon storage, expertise base, and offshore wind resource.  
• Leading on developing a Net Zero framework and pathway for aviation given the UK’s 
high per person aviation emissions.  
• Developing GHG removals incentives and sustainability standards. The UK is expected 
to be among the first countries to deploy key new technologies for greenhouse gas 
removal at large-scales, including bioenergy with carbon capture and storage 
(BECCS). 
• Green recovery and greening the UK financial sector. The UK is one of the leading 
providers of international climate finance to developing countries. The UK should use 
its position as a global financial sector with substantial cross-border investment to help 
drive financial sector reform to provide the necessary shift in private sector investment. 
These opportunities are not unique to the UK, but the UK could be well placed to 
significantly contribute to all of them.  
Source: Vivid Economics (2020) Unpacking leadership-driven global scenarios towards the Paris Agreement.  
 
There are several ways through 
which the UK could effectively 
contribute to raising global 
ambition.     
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
342 
The priority for the UK should be to focus on actions that will have the largest 
impact in the transition to a low-carbon economy globally, while at the same time 
being consistent with the achievement of sustainable development goals (SDGs) 
and building on the areas where it has particular advantages. The largest priority 
over the next year will be the UK’s responsibilities for hosting COP26 in Glasgow at 
the end of 2021 and at the same time holding the presidency of the G7 group of 
countries. 2021 will see Governments around the world produce economic 
recovery packages following COVID-19 induced recessions. If aligned to climate 
goals these can help stimulate some of the required investments needed to deliver 
the low-carbon transition this decade. The UK can put decarbonisation at the 
forefront of these recovery efforts in its role as lead for the UN’s global workstream 
on ensuring an inclusive and sustainable recovery, alongside its 2021 international 
presidencies. 
 
The Government should bring forward ambitious commitments for all aspects of 
the Paris Agreement as part of its strengthened commitments this year. This 
includes finance, technology transfer, capacity building and supporting efforts to 
adapt to current and future climate impacts around the world. This should involve 
putting in place much stronger climate adaptation planning, which has 
languished for the last decade, alongside its strengthened emissions reduction 
commitments. The UK has recently announced a doubling of its climate finance 
commitments over the coming five-year period. This funding should continue to be 
split between climate mitigation and climate adaption, as adapting to climate 
risks is significantly underfunded at a global level.25 The UK should encourage other 
large providers of climate finance to do the same.  
 
iii) Conclusions on the purchase of international carbon units  
 
The Paris Agreement allows countries and other bodies (e.g. private companies 
and international aviation) to collaborate to achieve the NDCs (Article 6). The rules 
on Article 6 have yet to be finalised – the UK will coordinate efforts aiming to 
establish a robust and credible centralised global carbon market and rules to 
avoid double counting of emissions reductions at COP26.  
 
The Committee does not recommend setting a Sixth Carbon Budget that either 
requires the purchase of international carbon units or allows for international 
carbon units to contribute to meeting the budget (Chapter 10). The Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway fully achieves our recommended budget through domestic actions.  
 
Using international carbon units in place of domestic action to meet the Balanced 
Pathway poses several risks including: 
• 
The UK has an internationally influential record of domestic emissions 
reductions. The usage of international carbon units to substitute for 
emissions reductions that could be achieved domestically could 
undermine this influence and legitimise other countries to weaken their 
commitments to domestic actions.  
• 
Usage of credits could impair the clarity of the sectoral actions required to 
meet the budget by suggesting possible flexibility in the need to deliver 
emissions reductions.  
• 
Substituting domestic effort with purchased emissions reductions from 
outside the UK could make it more difficult to achieve the necessary 
domestic transitions needed to reach Net Zero by 2050.  
 
 
Strong commitments across all 
aspects of the Paris 
Agreement will be necessary 
from the UK, including on 
supporting adapting to 
climate risks.      
Our Balanced Pathway can 
and should be met without the 
use of international emissions 
reduction credits.      
The UK’s role as host of the 
international negotiations in 
2021 will be the focus for its 
international climate policy 
next year.              
343 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Outside of use for compliance with the UK emissions targets, some use of credit 
purchase may be a useful part of the UK’s international climate policy in addition 
to domestic delivery of the Balanced Pathway. For many aspects of the global 
transition supporting the global effort with capacity building and climate finance 
would likely have more benefits for sustainable development and transformational 
change towards deeper decarbonisation than funding through global carbon 
markets. However, modelled leadership-driven scenarios achieving the Paris 
Agreement still involve a large amount of expensive effort (e.g. CCS and removals) 
in developing and middle-income countries. These are likely to need an ongoing 
income stream, which carbon markets and transfers of carbon units could help 
provide.  
 
Any credits purchased for this purpose must be robust and represent real and 
equitable action to effectively support the global effort to achieve the Paris 
Agreement. There should be clear evidence of additionality to emissions 
reductions that would be expected to be achieved otherwise, and they must fulfil 
sustainability criteria including at a minimum: resulting in no net harm, being fully 
compatible with sustainable development goals and avoiding detriment to local 
communities. This is particularly important for credits dependent on significant use 
of land or biomass. We outlined a set of principles for robust credit purchase in our 
2019 Net Zero report.  
 
 
 
Credit purchase outside of the 
UK’s emissions targets could be 
a way of supporting some 
parts of the global effort but 
would need strong robustness 
conditions.       
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
344 
4. Reducing the UK’s carbon footprint 
Under the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement, emissions accounting is based on 
territorial emissions (the emissions produced within the territorial bounds of 
countries). This is the internationally agreed accounting methodology for NDCs 
and is aligned to who has sovereignty over the sources of emissions. Given the 
widespread acceptance of this accounting framework internationally it remains 
the right framework under which the UK should set legally binding targets, both for 
the domestic carbon budgets and for the UK’s NDC. An alternative perspective 
associates emissions caused during the production of goods and services with the 
country that is the final consumer of those goods and services independent of 
where in the world those emissions occurred. This is known as consumption-based 
accounting.  
 
The UK has a larger consumption emissions footprint than its territorial based 
account – as is the case with many developed countries. This section looks at 
actions the UK could take to help reduce overseas emissions associated with UK 
consumption as part of its efforts to help reduce global emissions.  
 
We conclude that the UK can and should aim to reduce its overseas consumption 
footprint as part of its contribution to reducing global emissions. A growing fraction 
of the UK’s consumption emissions footprint is now being covered by Net Zero 
commitments around the world and there are several levers available to the UK to 
help tackle its consumption emissions footprint to support its domestic efforts. Our 
analysis suggests it is credible for the UK to reduce its total consumption footprint by 
around 90% below 1990 levels if other countries follow pathways consistent with the 
Paris Agreement and we will track progress towards this goal.  
 
There are two subsections: 
a) The current composition of the UK consumption emissions footprint 
b) Levers for tackling UK consumption emissions  
 
a) The current composition of the UK’s consumption footprint  
 
In 2017, the most recent year for which estimates are available, the UK’s 
consumption emissions footprint was 772 MtCO2e, about 50% higher than its 
territorial emissions. 
 
54% of these consumption footprint emissions were produced in the UK and are 
therefore counted in the UK’s territorial account. 
• 
Of these UK produced consumption emissions, a significant fraction (34%) 
of these emissions occur directly from households – through driving of cars 
and the heating of homes (Figure 7.6). These are parts of the economy 
where emissions can be reduced to zero through a combination of 
technology and behavioural change as outlined in Chapter 3.  
• 
The other 66% of the UK-produced consumption emissions arise from other 
sectors of the UK economy that produce goods and services consumed in 
the UK. This will include emissions from electricity generation, some industrial 
products, food production, waste services and other transport services. All 
these sources are included within our territorial emissions scenarios. Most 
can be reduced to close to zero emissions by 2050, but some (e.g. parts of 
agriculture and aviation) will remain as positive emission sources.  
The UK accounts for emissions 
consistent with standard 
practices internationally.       
Alternative ‘consumption-
based’ accounting assigns 
more emissions to the UK.        
The UK can and should aim to 
reduce its overseas 
consumption emissions as part 
of helping global 
decarbonisation.        
Most of the UK’s consumption 
emissions occur in the UK.  
345 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
46% of UK consumption emissions are ‘imported’ – occurring in production 
processes overseas to produce goods and services that meet UK final economic 
demand. This includes emissions from the supply chains of both imported final 
goods and services, and imports that are inputs to a domestic economic activity 
(e.g. steel imports for the UK car manufacturing industry):  
• 
Of these imported consumption emissions, 55% arise from the supply chains 
of goods and services that are imported into the UK as final products to 
directly meet UK final economic demand, for example manufactured cars 
produced abroad that are imported and then sold in the UK. Any emissions 
generated producing inputs for the production process outside of the UK 
are also included within this total.  
• 
45% arise from the supply chains of imported products or components that 
are inputs to a domestic economic activity.  
 
Figure 7.6 Decomposition of UK consumption 
emissions in 2016 
 
Source: Defra (2019) The UK’s carbon footprint. 
Notes: 2016 data is used here as this edition of the dataset provides the required breakdown. No significant 
changes would be expected in 2017, the most recent year with consumptions emissions data available. 
 
Recent and expected Net Zero emissions commitments from the European Union, 
Japan, South Korea, the US and China means that around 76% of the UK’s carbon 
footprint (48% of imported emissions) is, or will soon be, covered by Net Zero targets 
around mid-century (Figure 7.7).  
 
 
 
Most of the UK’s imported 
consumption emissions will also 
be covered by Net Zero 
targets for mid-century.    
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
346 
In 2017 the UK consumption emissions footprint was 16% below 1990 levels. Over 
the same period, the monetary value of the UK’s total consumption of goods and 
services grew by around 80% in real terms. Between 1990 and 2006 the UK's 
consumption emissions footprint increased by around 6%, before the effects of the 
global financial crisis caused the UK's consumption emissions footprint to decline 
sharply over 2007-2009. Since 2009 it has steadily declined although at a slower 
rate than the UK's territorial emissions.  
 
Figure 7.7 Regional breakdown of the UK’s 
consumption emissions footprint for 2017 
 
Source: Defra (2020) The UK’s carbon footprint. 
Notes: Regions that have set a Net Zero target are shown as solid colours, with other regions shown with hatching. 
South Korea has a Net Zero target and falls within the other OECD region within these accounts. 
 
b) Levers for tackling UK consumption emissions  
As UK territorial emissions decline on the Balanced Net Zero Pathway the overseas 
emissions associated with UK consumption will become an ever more important 
part of the UK’s contribution to climate change. As a developed country, the UK 
should be aiming to help reduce these overseas consumption emissions as part of 
its efforts to support global emissions reductions. Action to help accelerate the 
reduction in consumption emissions can be gathered into several categories:  
• 
Reduce domestic territorial emissions to Net Zero along the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway. The majority of the UK’s consumption footprint occurs within 
the UK. Achieving the required territorial reductions (in a way that doesn’t 
offshore these emissions) remains the single most important contribution to 
reducing the UK’s consumption emissions footprint overall.  
The UK consumption emissions 
footprint has declined, but not 
as fast as its territorial emissions.     
Consumers, companies and 
the Government all have 
levers which can help reduce 
imported consumption 
emissions.  
347 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Domestic decarbonisation also reduces the UK demand for imported fossil 
fuels – eliminating additional consumption emissions associated with their 
extraction and transport. Changes in consumption patterns needed in our 
scenarios to meet Net Zero territorially mean that there will be additional 
reductions in the UK’s consumption emissions footprint. This would be further 
enhanced with a policy approach that will tend to lower the carbon-
intensity of imported goods and provide a level playing field to domestic 
low-carbon production, as discussed in our accompanying policy report.  
• 
Consumer action to reduce demand for high-carbon goods. Our scenarios 
to deliver Net Zero domestically involve changes in consumption by 
consumers (e.g. reduced meat consumption), alongside waste reduction 
and resource efficiency. These changes will have additional benefits for UK 
consumption emissions to the extent to which they apply to imports as well 
as domestic production.* This can help reduce the 55% of the UK’s imported 
consumption emissions that are in the form of final goods and services.  
• 
Corporate action. 45% of the UK’s imported consumption emissions come 
from the products that are inputs to a domestic economic activity. Better 
measurement of emissions along supply chains will help companies identify 
the emissions ‘hotspots’ within their supply chains, work with suppliers to 
reduce the carbon intensity of these goods and/or find alternative low-
carbon supply chains. Resource efficiency in production processes (which 
is included in our scenarios) can require less use of imported carbon intense 
products (e.g. steel).  
• 
Action enabled by effective trade measures and product standards. Both 
actions by the final consumer and by UK corporations can be aided by 
trade arrangements. Product standards and border carbon adjustments, if 
they can be made effective, create markets for both final and 
intermediate consumption that help consumers and firms make low-carbon 
choices. They can also play a role in preventing ‘offshoring’ of emissions 
from actions to decarbonise industry in the UK which would otherwise 
undermine the benefit of domestic decarbonisation for UK consumption 
emissions.  
• 
Avoiding scrappage. Scrapping high-carbon capital stock early in its 
lifetime and replacing it with low-carbon alternatives could help reduce 
operational emissions that occur within the UK’s territorial emissions 
account, but may not bring benefits in terms of consumption emissions 
when production emissions occurring overseas are considered. Where 
possible we have tried to avoid scrapping capital stock unnecessarily when 
constructing our scenarios for reducing the UK’s territorial emissions.    
The UK’s changing global trade relationships at the present time presents an 
opportunity to stimulate global decarbonisation through trade arrangements and 
the Government should explore this alongside the other levers to reduce the UK’s 
consumption emissions footprint. The growing spread of mid-century territorial 
emissions Net Zero targets could form a basis for possible border carbon 
adjustments.  
This should be done mindful of the economic challenges in recovering from 
COVID-19 in countries all around the world, particularly in developing countries, 
who are generally not expected to reach Net Zero emissions on the same timelines 
as developed countries under the Paris Agreement. Fair and effective border 
carbon adjustment proposals would need to be mindful of these factors.  
 
 
* We quantified an estimate of the size of changes in overseas consumption emissions from demand changes in our 
2019 Net Zero report. 
International trade measures 
would need to be 
implemented carefully.  
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
348 
We have produced exploratory scenarios for the UK’s future consumption emissions 
footprint (Box 7.5) that suggest that if the world is successful in efforts to reduce 
global greenhouse gas emissions in-line with scenarios expected to deliver the Paris 
Agreement, the UK’s consumption footprint could fall by 65% by 2035 and 90% by 
2050 relative to 1990 levels.  
We will monitor the UK’s overseas consumption emissions footprint against this 
indicative pathway alongside our progress reporting on territorial emissions. The 
Government should explore the levers identified above to reduce the UK’s 
consumption emissions, alongside its wider support of the global effort (Section 3).  
 
Box 7.7  
Approach to developing ‘exploratory’ UK consumption emission pathways  
We have projected possible futures for the UK’s consumption emissions footprint, building 
on the methodology in our 2013 report Reducing the UK’s carbon footprint and 
managing competitiveness risks developed with the University of Leeds. These projections 
rely on several assumptions:  
 
• International ambition: We consider two scenarios for how international carbon 
intensities of production will evolve in the future, based on the global modelling 
described in Section 3. The ‘Current global ambition’ case represents countries 
meeting currently pledged NDCs for 2030 and continuing to decarbonise at the same 
rate after 2030. The ‘Paris Agreement’ scenario sees global CO2 emissions fall to Net 
Zero around 2060, consistent with limiting warming to ‘well-below’ 2°C above 
preindustrial levels. In both cases we consider reductions of UK territorial emissions 
along the Balanced Net Zero Pathway to Net Zero. 
• Consumption patterns and production structures: We assume overall growth rates in 
the consumption of most categories of goods and services consistent with the UK-wide 
GDP trajectory we have used throughout the rest of this report. We represent shifts in 
the final demand for goods and services consistent with our Balanced Net Zero 
Pathway where these can easily be mapped to specific groups of goods and services 
(e.g. passenger aviation demand). Due to the speculative nature of projecting 
changes in the production structure of economies (how sectors interact with each 
other in the UK and around the world), we hold this constant at today’s levels.  
• Production standards: Delivering the Balanced Pathway requires significant changes in 
the methods of production for trade-exposed sectors such as heavy manufacturing. 
Our supporting policy report recommends exploring trade measures to ensure that this 
transition is not undermined by ‘offshoring’ of production reducing the benefits of the 
decarbonisation action for global emissions. We include a simple representation of 
these standards within our projection for future imported emissions by converging the 
carbon intensities of production overseas with UK levels within a limited number of 
heavy industry and fuel production sectors.  
• Coverage: Some sources of emissions fall outside of the consumption emissions 
framework. Emissions from land-use, land-use change and forestry around the world 
have large uncertainties and are difficult to associate with demands for products at 
the level of economic sectors, so are not included within the UK’s consumption 
emissions accounts at present.  
These exploratory scenarios suggest that significant falls in the UK’s consumption emissions 
footprint would be expected over 2020 to 2050 across the range of possible global 
emissions reduction ambition. Most of this reduction comes from reducing the UK’s 
territorially sourced emissions to Net Zero. In a current global ambition case imported 
emissions would only decline by 15% relative to their 1990 levels, with our modelled simple 
representation of production standards necessary to keep imported emissions from rising. 
With increased global ambition approximately aligned to the Paris Agreement, imported 
emissions would also fall – by about 75% relative to 1990 levels in our modelled scenario.  
 
Significant reductions in the 
UK’s consumption emissions 
footprint is possible by 2050.   
We have developed 
exploratory scenarios for how 
the UK’s consumption 
emissions might evolve and will 
track against these 
trajectories.  
Significant falls in the UK 
consumption emissions 
footprint could be achieved 
by 2050.   
349 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure B7.2 Exploratory projections for UK  
consumption emissions under a current ambition 
and Paris Agreement aligned global emissions 
scenario 
 
Source: Defra (2020) The UK’s Carbon Footprint; CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 7: The Sixth Carbon Budget as a contribution to the Paris Agreement 
350 
1 Cambridge Econometrics (2020) China’s net zero ambition could boost GDP by 5% during this 
decade; Scovronick, N. et al. (2019) The impact of human health co-benefits on evaluations of 
global climate policy. Nature Communications, 10, 2095; Luderer, G. et al. (2019) Environmental 
co-benefits and adverse side-effects of alternative power sector decarbonization strategies. 
Nature Communications, 10, 5229. 
2 Bloomberg New Energy Finance (2020) Scale up of solar and wind puts existing coal and gas at 
risk. 
3 Tsiropoulos I. et al. (2020) Towards net-zero emissions in the EU energy system by 2050– Insights 
from scenarios in line with the 2030 and 2050 ambitions of the European Green Deal? 
4 Ember (2020) Vision or division? What do National Energy and Climate Plans tell us about the EU 
power sector in 2030? 
5 Spanish Government (2020) Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030; The 
Netherlands Government (2019) Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan.  
6 European Commission (2020) A hydrogen strategy for a climate-neutral Europe. 
7 Vivid Economics (2020) Unpacking leadership-driven global pathways towards the Paris 
Agreement.  
8 IPCC (2018) Chapter 2: Mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5°C in the context of sustainable 
development in: Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C.  
9 Cui, R. Y. et al. (2019) Quantifying operational lifetimes for coal power plants under the Paris 
goals. Nature Communications,10, 475. 
10 IRENA (2020) Renewable Power Generation Costs in 2019; IEA (2020) China’s Emissions Trading 
Scheme. 
11 IPCC (2018) Chapter 2: Mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5°C in the context of sustainable 
development in: Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C. 
12 IEA (2019) World Energy Outlook 2019.  
13 Bloomberg New Energy Finance (2020) Scale up of solar and wind puts existing coal and gas at 
risk. 
14 IPCC (2019) Special Report on Climate Change and Land.  
15 IRENA (2020) 10 Years: Progress to Action. 
16 McCollum, D.L. et al. (2018) Energy investment needs for fulfilling the Paris Agreement and 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Nature Energy, 3(7), p.589. 
17 IEA (2020) Heat Pumps Tracking Report. 
18 IEA (2020) Tracking Hydrogen. 
19 Carbon Engineering (2019) CE expanding capacity of commercial Direct Air Capture plant; 
Drax (2020) Drax BECCS timeline.  
20 World Resources Institute (2020) 2020 NDC Tracker. 
21 Climate Action Tracker Initiative (2020) China going carbon neutral before 2060 would lower 
warming projections by around 0.2 to 0.3 degrees C. 
22 Global Energy Monitor (2020) A New Coal Boom in China. 
23 EPA (2020) Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
24 Vivid Economics (2020) Unpacking leadership-driven global pathways towards the Paris 
Agreement. 
25 OECD (2019) Climate-related Development Finance Data.  
 
 
351 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Scientific context for setting the 
UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
 
 
1. The fundamentals of the physical science basis remain strong 
355 
2. Updated understanding of the climate system 
359 
3. Global CO2 budgets as a guide for mitigation pathways 
367 
4. Minimising the UK’s future contribution to climate change 
372 
5. The need to adapt to a changing climate 
377 
 
 
 
353 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Introduction and key messages 
 
The Committee is required to consider scientific knowledge about climate change 
when providing advice on the level of the UK’s carbon budgets. This chapter 
presents our assessment for the purposes of advising on the level of the UK’s Sixth 
Carbon Budget.  
 
This chapter builds on our assessment in our Fifth Carbon Budget advice in 2015 
and our recent advice on setting a Net Zero target for the UK in 2019. It draws on 
recent developments in the scientific literature, the recent Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Reports and Fifth Assessment Report 
(AR5), which remains the most up-to-date comprehensive assessment by the IPCC 
of the physical basis for climate change until the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report is 
published in 2021. Our conclusions are:  
• 
Fundamental understanding of climate change and its causes continues to 
strengthen. The conclusions of our Fifth Carbon Budget assessment are 
strengthened by the latest developments in the scientific literature. The 
recent Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C (SR1.5) has improved the 
understanding of how future greenhouse gas emissions affect the climate 
and what is required to keep warming to the Paris Agreement long-term 
temperature goal. We have drawn on this strengthening knowledge base 
to inform the construction of our UK emissions pathways towards the 2050 
Net Zero goal.  
• 
Understanding of climate sensitivity has continued to progress since our 
Fifth Carbon Budget advice and IPCC-AR5. A new community synthesis 
(published in 2020) of multiple lines of evidence regarding how sensitive the 
climate is to atmospheric carbon dioxide has suggested narrower ranges 
for uncertainties in the climate sensitivity than IPCC-AR5. The range of 
climate sensitivity from a new generation of complex climate models 
extends to higher values than previously. This new knowledge base will be 
reviewed by the IPCC next year. The global emissions pathways assessed 
by IPCC-SR1.5 currently remain the best indicators of the global ambition 
expected to achieve the Paris Agreement temperature goal.  
• 
Minimising cumulative emissions of long-lived greenhouse gases will help 
minimise additional climate impacts along the pathway to Net Zero. 
Estimates of the remaining global cumulative CO2 emissions consistent with 
keeping warming to the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal 
ultimately depend on a set of choices and definitions, which imply a wide 
range could be consistent. This means it is challenging to use these 
estimates to constrain national emissions pathways robustly. National 
emissions pathways should however seek to minimise cumulative long-lived 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on the pathway to Net Zero to minimise 
additional climate impacts, highlighting the need for ambitious near-term 
emissions reductions to fully align with the Paris Agreement.  
• 
Adapting to climate risks is essential given the wide ranges of climate 
futures that remain possible. Climate impacts are already being felt in the 
UK and around the world. These will increase with further warming – and 
some increase is inevitable even under the most ambitious global emissions 
reductions. Warming in excess of 2°C cannot be ruled out even under 
global emissions scenarios expected to satisfy the Paris Agreement and 
warming in excess of 4°C by 2100 remains possible if the current ambition 
for reduction in global emissions is not increased. This demonstrates the 
importance of considering a wide range of climate outcomes in 
adaptation planning and implementation.  
 
This chapter provides the 
Committee’s assessment of 
the scientific understanding 
about climate change as 
required under the Climate 
Change Act when advising on 
carbon budgets. 
It builds on the assessments in 
the Committee’s advice on 
the Fifth Carbon Budget and 
on setting a UK Net Zero 
target. 
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
354 
We set out our analysis in five sections: 
 
1. The fundamentals of the physical science basis remain strong 
2. Updated understanding of the climate system  
3. Global CO2 budgets as a guide for mitigation pathways   
4. Minimising the UK’s future contribution to climate change  
5. The need to adapt to a changing climate 
 
 
355 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1. The fundamentals of the physical science basis remain strong 
This report builds on the assessment of the scientific knowledge about climate 
change in the Committee’s Fifth Carbon Budget and Net Zero advice reports.1 It is 
also informed by the two new Special Reports from the IPCC on The Ocean and 
Cryosphere in a Changing Climate and Climate Change and Land. This section 
reviews the key messages from those reports.  
 
i) IPCC Fifth Assessment Report 
 
The last time the Committee advised on the level of a UK carbon budget (the Fifth 
Carbon Budget in 2015), the recently published IPCC Fifth Assessment report (IPCC-
AR5 - completed in 2014) formed the scientific underpinning of our assessment. It 
remains the IPCC’s latest full assessment report, with the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment 
report expected in 2021. 
 
IPCC-AR5 clearly demonstrated that the climate is changing as a result of human 
activity, causing damaging impacts, and that to stop continued increases in 
global temperature, global emissions of greenhouse gases must be reduced to 
very close to zero:  
• 
The climate is changing as a result of global greenhouse gas emissions. The 
IPCC concluded that it was unequivocal that humans were influencing the 
climate. It is extremely likely (>95% probability) that human activity is the 
dominant cause of the warming observed since the 1950s, with the best 
estimate of the human-induced contribution similar to the observed 
warming over the period.   
• 
Many climate impacts are being detected across the world. IPCC-AR5 
concluded that 'recent climate changes have had widespread impacts on 
human and natural systems on all continents and across the oceans'. 
Attributable impacts included an impact of climate change on crop yields, 
shrinking glaciers and changing rainfall patterns affecting water availability, 
along with changing geographic ranges of species on land and ocean. 
• 
Further emissions will lead to further warming and change. The pathways of 
future global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will be the primary 
determiner of how the climate continues to change in the future. Future 
warming will bring additional increases in the climate-related risks already 
present, as well as the emergence of new ones. 
• 
There is no simple threshold beyond which climate change moves from 
safe to dangerous. Climate impacts are being felt today and are having 
significant consequences for people and natural systems already. There is 
no ‘safe’ level of global warming at which significant climate impacts can 
be avoided entirely.  
• 
The increase in global temperature is determined mainly by total carbon 
dioxide emissions over time, which must fall to near zero in order to limit 
warming. Long-lived GHGs (such as carbon dioxide – CO2) accumulate in 
the atmosphere, meaning continued emission of these gases leads to 
continually increasing warming. Warming created by long-lived GHGs is not 
naturally reversible on the timescale of decades-to-centuries. Therefore, 
reducing this warming would requires the active removal of long-lived 
GHGs from the atmosphere. 
The IPCC Fifth Assessment 
Report and the recent IPCC 
Special Reports summarise the 
core of the evidence basis for 
this chapter. 
The conclusions of the IPCC 
Fifth Assessment Report on the 
fundamentals of climate 
change remain valid. 
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
356 
Over the five years since the Committee’s advice on the UK’s Fifth Carbon Budget, 
these key messages remain valid. Confidence in these conclusions has increased 
as evidence and understanding has continued to accumulate. They have been 
reinforced by additional observations of climate change, new climate modelling 
efforts and improved understanding of the climate system (Section 2).  
 
ii) IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C 
 
The Committee’s Net Zero report in 2019 built on the recently published IPCC 
Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C (IPCC-SR1.5) to assess what was 
necessary to keep warming to the long-term temperature goal of the Paris 
Agreement.  
 
Key messages emerging from that assessment included:  
• 
Any action to reduce emissions helps limit future climate risks. The world 
has already started moving away from the highest emissions futures and 
the most severe future climate impacts. Meeting the temperature goal of 
the Paris Agreement would lead to significantly smaller increases in future 
climate risks than projected under current pathways. Any action to reduce 
global GHG emissions helps to reduce future global temperature increases 
and keep future increases in climate hazards as small as possible.  
• 
Net Zero emissions of long-lived GHGs are needed to stop the planet 
warming, alongside falling emissions of shorter-lived GHGs. Emissions of 
long-lived GHGs (e.g. CO2 and nitrous oxide) lead to increased 
atmospheric concentrations for many decades. Emissions of shorter-lived 
GHGs (e.g. methane) see atmospheric concentrations return to normal 
levels within a few decades after emissions are stopped due to their 
removal from the atmosphere by natural chemical cycles.  
• 
Keeping to the long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement requires 
reducing long-lived GHG emissions rapidly over the next few decades to 
reach Net Zero, alongside rapid reductions in short-lived GHGs. Global 
emissions pathways expected to keep peak warming to 1.5°C reach Net 
Zero CO2 emissions by around 2050 and around 2075 for 'well-below 2°C' 
(Figure 8.1).* Pathways reach Net Zero aggregated GHG emissions around 
2070 for a 1.5°C limit with most pathways not yet reaching Net Zero GHG 
emissions before 2100 for ‘well-below’ 2°C.†  
 
The emissions pathways assessed by IPCC-SR1.5 were a key part of the analysis 
underpinning the Committee’s advice that the UK should set a long-term emissions 
target for Net Zero aggregated GHG emissions by 2050 – ahead of the date 
necessary for the world as a whole for a 1.5°C pathway. IPCC-SR1.5 remains the 
most recent synthesis assessment of global emissions pathways expected to satisfy 
the Paris Agreement, and therefore remains the core of the evidence base for the 
purposes of this report. An updated assessment is expected from the Working 
Group III assessment, as part of the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, expected in 
2021.  
 
 
*   In this report we interpret effort consistent with the ‘well-below’ 2°C limit in the Paris Agreement long-term 
temperature goal as bounded on the high end by global emissions scenarios with at least a 66% probability of 
keeping peak warming below 2°C. This is consistent with our interpretation in the 2019 Net Zero report.  
†   GHG emissions are here aggregated using the Global Warming Potential metric with a time horizon of 100 years, 
consistent with international GHG reporting practice.  
Recent evidence has further 
strengthened these 
conclusions.  
The IPCC Special Report on 
Global Warming of 1.5°C 
provides the most recent 
comprehensive assessment of 
the global effort needed to 
achieve the Paris Agreement.   
The key features of global 
emissions pathways to keep to 
the Paris Agreement are well 
understood.   
357 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 8.1 Global emissions pathways consistent 
with the Paris Agreement 
 
Source: CCC (2019) Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping climate change. 
 
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
358 
iii) IPCC Special Reports on the Ocean and on Land 
 
Whilst there has not been a new comprehensive IPCC assessment report since our 
advice on the Fifth Carbon Budget and the UK’s Net Zero targets, there have been 
additional IPCC Special Reports on The Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing 
Climate and Climate Change and Land, which have helped to document 
particular aspects of this improved knowledge base (Box 8.1).  
 
Box 8.1 
IPCC Special Reports – Oceans & Cryosphere in Changing Climate; Climate Change and 
Land 
The IPCC produced a special report on climate change and land (published in August 
2019) that assessed literature looking at the role of climate change on desertification, 
land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and greenhouse gas 
fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems. Several conclusions on the role of land in climate 
mitigation were found: 
 
• Land plays a critical role in supporting human society and is already under pressure 
from climate change. Land provides humans with food, freshwater and ecosystem 
services. About 70% of the planet’s ice-free surface is directly affected by humans in 
some way.  
• Land surface temperatures have warmed by over 1.5°C from the pre-industrial period. 
This warming, and the associated changes in weather extremes, is already impacting 
food security including crop yields and agricultural pests and diseases. 
• Land-based mitigation can play an important role in limiting future warming. Emissions 
from the global food and land-use system contribute 21 - 37% of global GHG emissions 
today, but measures to reduce these exist with many bringing other co-benefits for 
sustainable development.  
• There are limits to what land-based mitigation can achieve by itself. Land will come 
under further pressure from future climate change and very large-scale use of land for 
mitigation (e.g. afforestation or biomass production) could have negative 
consequences for other functions of land such as biodiversity, food production and 
climate resilience.  
The IPCC Special Report on Oceans and the Cryosphere in a Changing Climate was 
published in September 2019. The main conclusions were:  
 
• Observations show that the Earth’s oceans are getting warmer and becoming more 
acidic; glaciers and ice sheets have reduced in volume and sea ice coverage and 
thickness has reduced. The rate of global sea level rise has recently accelerated due 
to increased water input, primarily from melting ice sheets and glaciers.  
• These changes are having impacts today. Coral reef bleaching events have become 
more common and the geographical extent of species’ ranges in the ocean is 
changing. Melting glaciers are affecting water availability in some mountain regions.  
• Significant additional changes will occur in the oceans even if the Paris Agreement 
long-term temperature goal is achieved. Sea levels will continue to rise for many 
hundreds of years even after global temperatures are stabilised. Average sea levels 
could rise by 0.3 – 0.6 m (>66% probability range) above 1986-2005 levels by 2100 
under a global emissions scenario approximately consistent with achieving the Paris 
Agreement long-term temperature goal and would continue rising after 2100. 
• The upper end of projections for future sea level rise have been revised upwards from 
the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. This is primarily due to increased uncertainty 
regarding the contribution from Antarctic melt. Under a scenario with very high future 
global GHG emissions, global sea level rise could be 0.6 – 1.1 m (>66% probability 
range) above 1986-2005 levels by 2100.   
These special reports document the improved understanding of the risks from climate 
change to oceans and land. They have strengthened the evidence base on what 
mitigation and adaption actions can be taken to help limit future risks.  
There have been new IPCC 
Special Reports summarising 
the evidence base on aspects 
of climate change.   
359 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
2. Updated understanding of the climate system  
Knowledge about the climate system has continued to progress over recent years. 
New observations show continued warming occurring. The fingerprint of human-
induced climate change can increasingly be found in extreme weather events. At 
the same time, a new generation of complex climate models is becoming 
available with improved representations of physical processes relevant for 
projecting future climate change. Together new observations and new modelling 
capabilities are leading to new understanding of the climate system. 
 
This section summarises some recent developments in the evidence base relevant 
to the Committee’s advice on the level of UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget. It is split into 
two sub-sections: 
a) New observations of climate change 
b) New modelling and understanding of climate sensitivity 
 
a) New observations of climate change 
Over the five years since our Fifth Carbon Budget advice, further changes in the 
climate system have been observed: 
• 
The five years since 2015 have seen the five warmest years (globally) on 
record.2  
• 
The global average level of human-induced warming is now in excess of 
1.1°C when defined consistent with practices used by the World 
Metrological Organisation and IPCC-SR1.5.3* Best estimates indicate that 
human activities are responsible for 100% of the warming observed since 
1850-1900.† The observed rate of increase in global temperature (~0.2°C 
per decade) has proceeded consistent with the near-term warming 
projection made by the IPCC-AR5 report in 2013 (a 0.12 - 0.42°C per 
decade increase). 
• 
Global sea levels have continued to rise, with the rate of increase over the 
last five years being the fastest observed to date. Global average sea 
levels are now estimated to be around 20 cm above levels in 1900. 4   
• 
In the UK, the 2010 – 2019 decade was the second warmest cardinal 
decade on record after 2000 – 2009. In 2019, the highest ever temperature 
reached in the UK was recorded as well as the warmest ever recorded 
winter temperature.5 Considerably more high temperature records were set 
in the UK over than 2010s than low temperature records.  
 
The detection and attribution of the role of human-induced climate change in 
extreme weather events has now become firmly established as a scientific 
discipline.6 Human-induced climate change has been clearly shown to increase 
the frequency and intensity of many (but not all) extreme weather events, with 
particularly clear signals in extreme heat and many heavy rainfall events.7  
 
 
 
 
* A blend of near-surface air temperature over land and sea surface temperature over oceans.  
† This period is regularly used as an approximation of pre-industrial conditions, including by the IPCC 
New observations of climate 
change and new modelling 
capabilities are leading to 
improved understanding of 
the climate.   
Evidence of the changes in 
climate and its impacts have 
continued to mount over the 
last five years.   
The role of climate change in 
extreme weather events is 
increasingly well understood.    
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
360 
Attribution studies have also linked the human-induced changes in climate 
hazards through to its impact on people, for example an estimated 20% increase in 
heat-related mortality in London during the 2003 European heatwave (which was 
linked to ~300 additional deaths in the Greater London area). 8 Human-induced 
climate change is also shown to be increasing the kinds of conditions in which 
wildfires can occur including in areas of Western North America and Australia that 
have seen recent large fires.9 The impact of other extreme events has also been 
shown to be amplified by climate change, for example hurricanes are more 
damaging due to higher sea levels, and warmer seas leading to higher wind 
speeds and heavier rainfall.10  
 
These continued changes indicate just some of the consequences of the 
continued increase in drivers of climate change due to human activities (Box 8.2) 
and illustrate the impact of a planet over 1°C warmer than pre-industrial levels.  
 
Box 8.2: 
Changes in the drivers of climate change since the Fifth Carbon Budget advice 
The drivers of climate change have continued to evolve over the period since the 
Committee’s advice on the level of the Fifth Carbon Budget in 2015.  
 
• Global annual CO2 emissions have increased by 3% (energy-related emissions only) 
over 2014 - 2019, a significantly slower rate than over the proceeding five-year 
period.11 2019 saw close to zero growth on 2018 levels, with an expected fall in 2020 
levels following the effects of COVID-19 on energy use around the world. Projections 
from the International Energy Agency now suggest continued slow or no growth in 
global energy-related CO2 emissions over the coming decade, following the initial 
bounce-back from COVID-related declines soon after 2020. It is now very possible that 
global CO2 emissions may remain below 2019 levels over the course of the coming 
decade.12  
• Global non-CO2 GHG emissions. Global methane emissions have been rising steadily 
over the past decade, driven largely by rising emissions from the oil and gas sector 
and from ruminant agriculture.13 Nitrous oxide emissions have also been rising, primarily 
due to increased emissions from agricultural soils, whilst F-gas emissions are rapidly 
approaching the same magnitude (on a CO2-equivalent basis) as global nitrous oxide 
emissions. 
• Atmospheric GHG concentrations have continued to rise for major GHGs. CO2 
concentrations are driven by accumulating CO2 emissions in the atmosphere, 
reaching nearly 150% of their pre-industrial values.14 Understanding of the global 
atmospheric methane and nitrous oxide budgets has improved.15 Evidence indicates 
that rising emissions from both agricultural and energy sectors have underpinned the 
recent rise in atmospheric methane concentrations, with limited evidence to date of 
increasing methane release from the Arctic.16  
• Radiative forcing. The radiative forcing (heat trapping potential) of well-mixed GHGs 
has increased by around 45% since 1990, dominated by increases in the atmospheric 
concentration of CO2.17 A recent community assessment of radiative forcing from 
aerosols estimates that between 20% - 50% of the radiative forcing from well-mixed 
GHGs is being offset by aerosols.18 There have been no significant changes in natural 
climate forcing (e.g. from volcanic eruptions) over the past decade.  
The drop in annual global CO2 emissions expected for 2020 due to the impacts of COVID-
19 will not lead to any decrease in the atmospheric concentrations of CO 2 or the levels of 
human-induced warming.19 Continued CO2 emissions, even at a declining rate, continue 
to increase the global average temperature and will not reverse the changes in the 
climate system seen over recent decades. 
 
 
 
 
Global emissions have 
continued to rise over the past 
five years, but their growth has 
slowed recently. Emissions over 
the 2020s may remain below 
2019 levels due to longer-term 
effects of COVID-19 on global 
economies.      
361 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) New modelling and understanding of climate sensitivity  
 
Since IPCC-AR5 and the Committee’s advice on the UK’s Fifth Carbon Budget 
there have been new estimates of the equilibrium climate sensitivity - a predictor of 
long-term warming under a future atmospheric concentration scenario - from 
complex climate models and from a prominent synthesis of multiple lines of 
evidence. We summarise these areas of new evidence before assessing the 
expected implications for projections of climate change under rapid global 
emissions reductions.   
 
While a comprehensive assessment of this new knowledge will be undertaken by 
the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report in 2021, we conclude that available evidence to-
date suggests that the global emissions pathways summarised by the IPCC-SR1.5 
remain good guides to the level of ambition expected to be consistent with the 
Paris Agreement’s long-term temperature goal.  
 
i) New climate modelling 
 
Equilibrium climate sensitivity (ECS) is an important metric for future climate 
changes. It is defined as the amount of global warming that would eventually 
occur following a doubling of atmospheric CO2 concentrations (from pre-industrial 
levels). Estimates of ECS have extended over a similar range of uncertainty for 
many decades, with central estimates around 3°C of warming for a doubling of 
CO2 concentrations, but with significant uncertainty intervals extending from 1.5°C 
to 4.5°C (>66% confidence) in IPCC-AR5. 
 
Newly updated complex climate models are now available. Some of these models 
have a sensitivity to carbon dioxide that is above the range of complex climate 
models from the previous generation (Box 8.3). These models raise the possibility 
that the risks of very high temperature rises are higher than previously thought, but 
the process of understanding the reasons behind these new results - and their 
consistency with other lines of evidence - is still ongoing in the scientific community.  
 
Box 8.3 
Climate sensitivity in new complex climate models  
Computer simulations of the physics, chemistry and biology of the climate system are 
used to understand the fundamental processes important for the Earth’s climate and to 
project future changes. A new generation of climate models have been developed 
around the world over the past five years. These new models improve the resolution (the 
size of grid that the world is broken up into) to around 60 km from around 150 km in the 
previous generation. Some also include representations of additional physical processes, 
such as interactively simulating changes in the nitrogen cycle that previously have not 
been possible, and improved representations of cloud physics processes.  
 
This new generation of models (known as CMIP6 models) contain a number of models 
with ECS lying outside the assessed 1.5 – 4.5°C likely range from the IPCC-AR5 (this 
represents an interval in which the authors have over 66% confidence that the true value 
lies), and outside the range of values simulated by complex climate models in the 
previous generation (CMIP5). This means the upper end of the range of global 
temperature increases simulated under standardised emissions scenarios is now higher in 
CMIP6 than CMIP5.20  
 
The process of understanding the reasons behind these new higher sensitivity climate 
models is still ongoing in the scientific community, with strong cloud feedback over the 
Southern Ocean seemingly a key difference between the highest ECS models and 
others.21  
New complex climate models 
have been developed, some 
with a high warming in 
response to carbon dioxide. 
The reasons for this sensitivity 
are currently being 
investigated by the scientific 
community and should be 
treated with caution for now.     
The understanding of the 
Earth’s climate sensitivity has 
developed in recent years 
with advances in several 
areas.      
Climate sensitivity is an 
important metric for future 
climate change but has wide 
uncertainties.      
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
362 
However, several important caveats have already been identified suggesting caution 
over their direct relevance for mitigation policy:  
 
• Very high climate sensitivities can be difficult to reconcile with other lines of evidence 
on how the climate responds to forcing. In particular, what we know about how the 
climate was different in the Last Glacial Maximum (around 15,000 years ago) suggests 
that values for ECS above 4.5°C are unlikely but doesn’t categorically rule them out.   
• Some high sensitivity CMIP6 models struggle to accurately simulate the historical 
period. The observed rate of warming since the 1980s, which better constrain climate 
sensitivity due to limited changes in aerosol radiative forcing over this period, is lower 
than in many of the highest climate sensitivity models.22 However, this is not the case 
for all high sensitivity models with some having a good historical simulation and still a 
very high climate sensitivity due to non-linear cloud feedback mechanisms.23    
• The equilibrium climate sensitivity is not necessarily the most directly policy relevant 
metric of the climate response for this century. It is defined based on a fixed 
concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere so doesn’t include the effects of carbon 
cycle and how it will change in the future. For alternative metrics of the climate 
sensitivity that also incorporate carbon cycle responses many of the models with very 
high equilibrium climate sensitivity do not lie outside of the assessed ranges from IPCC-
AR5.24  
These caveats suggest caution in using the direct CMIP6 model outputs as representative 
of the overall range of uncertainty in projections of future climate change, particularly as 
the set of available models does not represent an attempt to sample the full range of 
uncertainty in climate sensitivity in a structural way. An assessment of these new climate 
models will be possible in the forthcoming IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, which we do not 
try to pre-empt in this report.  
 
 
ii) New synthesis of multiple lines of evidence 
  
A recent effort from across the scientific community published in 2020 and 
coordinated by the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) has attempted 
to synthesise several lines of evidence on climate sensitivity. It has proposed a 
significant narrowing of the range of uncertainty in ECS (Figure 8.2 – right two 
columns):25  
• 
This study used constraints from multiple lines of evidence including 
observed climate change, evidence from past climate states and 
understanding the processes relevant for future climate system feedbacks. 
This assessment does not directly rely on the estimates from complex 
climate models.  
• 
Combined together these lines of evidence suggest a central estimate for 
ECS of 3.1°C, with a >66% probability of it lying in the range of 2.6 - 3.9°C, 
narrower than the 1.5 – 4.5°C >66% probability range from IPCC-AR5. 
Alternative statistical modelling assumptions in the calculation to estimate 
ECS from the same data can extend the upper end of this >66% probability 
interval up to 4.5°C, similar to the distribution based on new complex 
climate models (‘WCRP uniform prior’ & ‘CMIP6’ – Figure 8.2).  
• 
Values of climate sensitivity below 2°C were found hard to reconcile with all 
the lines of evidence, while values above 4.5°C are difficult to reconcile 
with what is known about how the climate changed around the Last 
Glacial Maximum (around 15,000 years ago).  
 
This WCRP estimate will be assessed, along with all other new studies, in the 
forthcoming IPCC Sixth Assessment Report.  
 
These new high sensitivity 
models will be 
comprehensively assessed by 
the IPCC in 2021.      
A recent assessment looking at 
multiple kinds of evidence has 
proposed a significant 
narrowing of climate sensitivity 
uncertainties.       
This study did not categorically 
rule out the possibility of very 
high climate sensitivity.          
363 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
While the outcome of that assessment is still to be determined, these advances 
suggest the probability of very low levels of future warming for a given scenario of 
future atmospheric GHG concentrations may now be significantly less than 
indicated by the assessment of IPCC-AR5. This emphasises the need for rapid and 
sustained global emissions reductions to avoid significant increases in climate 
impacts over the century.  
 
The WCRP assessment also suggests that the probability of very high levels of 
warming for a given scenario of future global atmospheric GHG concentrations 
may also be reduced compared to the assessment of IPCC-AR5, but still cannot be 
categorically ruled out. 
 
Figure 8.2 Distributions for climate sensitivity from 
multiple sources / assessments 
 
Source: Sherwood, S. et. Al. (2020) An Assessment of Earth’s Climate Sensitivity Using Multiple Lines of Evidence. 
Reviews of Geophysics, 58, 4; Schlund et al. (2020) Emergent constraints on Equilibrium Climate Sensitivity CMIP5; do 
they hold for CMIP6? Earth Syst. Dynam. Discuss; IPCC (2013) Summary for policymakers – Climate Change 2013: 
The Physical Science Basis. 
Notes: Here climate sensitivity refers to the ‘effective climate sensitivity’ an approximation to the true equilibrium 
climate sensitivity derived from the first 150 years following a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide 
concentrations from preindustrial levels in climate models. CMIP refers to the Coupled Model Intercomparison 
Project – an ensemble of complex climate models from around 2013 (CMIP5) and around 2020 (CMIP6). WCRP 
refers to the World Climate Research Project climate sensitivity assessment. The ‘baseline’ range refers to the main 
set of statistical modelling assumptions used within the assessment and the ‘uniform sensitivity prior’ represents an 
alternative set of statistical modelling assumptions. IPCC-AR5 did not provide a 50th percentile estimate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
364 
iii) Implications for climate projections under rapid global 
decarbonisation scenarios  
 
We have worked with the UK Met Office (Box 8.4) to understand the implications of 
these new WCRP estimates for climate sensitivity uncertainty on the range of 
projected global warming under a global emissions scenario expected to keep 
(median) warming to the Paris Agreement long-term temperature target range 
according to the IPCC-SR1.5 assessment (Figure 8.3).* 
 
Box 8.4 
Modelling of implications of WCRP climate sensitivity distributions and additional Earth 
System feedbacks for climate projections 
We have worked with the UK Met Office to model the implications of the newly proposed 
climate sensitivity distributions from the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) study 
under a rapid global decarbonisation scenario, and a global emissions pathway 
consistent with current global emissions reduction ambition: 
 
• These projections use a version of the MAGICC simple climate model, one of the two 
simple climate models used to understand the climate implications of global emissions 
pathways in the IPCC-SR1.5 report.26 
• Distributions of model parameters for the physical climate response are chosen to be 
consistent with prescribed climate sensitivity distributions from the WCRP assessment. 
Other parameters (e.g. carbon cycle responses) remain tuned to span the range of 
responses consistent with the conventional use of MAGICC for probabilistic projections 
of climate outcomes.  
• Global emissions pathways for CO2, CH4 and N2O are taken from those produced 
under modelling with the TIAM integrated assessment model (Chapter 7). Two 
scenarios are considered: a scenario expected to be consistent with keeping median 
peak warming to around 1.75°C (based on IPCC-SR1.5 assessment of allowable future 
cumulative CO2 emissions), and a scenario in which current 2030 emissions targets 
(Nationally Determined Contributions – NDCs) are achieved and a similar level of 
global emissions reduction ambition is maintained over the rest of the century. 
Pathways for other GHGs and aerosol emissions are estimated from relationships 
between emissions of different gases across the range of scenarios assessed by IPCC-
SR1.5 with similar socioeconomic development assumptions.27  
The effects of incorporating additional Earth system feedbacks that are not typically 
included in the definition of climate sensitivity is also modelled:  
 
• These processes include amplifying feedbacks such as the thawing of permafrost as 
well as feedbacks that act to reduce climate change, such as the feedback of a 
warming climate on the atmospheric lifetime of methane emissions. An initial estimate 
of the size of these additional climate feedbacks associated with these processes was 
provided in the IPCC-AR5, but confidence remains low in many of them.28  
• When combined, the net effect of these processes suggests an additional amplifying 
climate feedback (median estimate), but with substantial uncertainty (spanning an 
overall negative feedback through to a more strongly amplifying feedback). The 
impact of these additional feedbacks on climate projections over the century is 
assessed following published methods, within the same simple climate model.29 
These additional feedbacks represent a potentially importance source of uncertainty in 
projections of the future climate but are expected to be less important than uncertainty 
in well-studied climate and carbon-cycle feedbacks (e.g. cloud feedback uncertainty) 
for projections over the coming century.  
 
 
 
*   This is a scenario that sees rapid falls in global GHG emissions from 2020, with global CO2 emissions falling to Net Zero 
around 2060. Based on the assessment of IPCC-SR1.5, this global emissions scenario would be expected to keep 
median peak warming to around 1.75°C above preindustrial levels.  
We have modelled the 
implications of the proposed 
narrowing of climate sensitivity 
uncertainty for global 
emissions scenarios expected 
to keep to the Paris 
Agreement.         
365 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 8.3 Global temperature projections under 
WCRP climate sensitivity distributions for a  
rapid global decarbonisation scenario 
 
Source: UK Met Office; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Future temperatures are expressed relative to the 2006 – 2015 reference period from IPCC-SR1.5 and offset 
by 0.870C to express warming relative to preindustrial levels. The dashed line shows estimated peak warming for this 
scenario based on the IPCC-SR1.5 global carbon budget assessment.  
 
Several conclusions can be drawn from this modelling: 
• 
The median estimate of warming remains within the 1.5 – 2°C range under 
the WCRP estimates of climate sensitivity uncertainty, indicating that the 
IPCC-AR5 and IPCC-SR1.5 would remain valid guides to the global 
emissions reductions expected to keep central estimates of warming to the 
long-term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement.  
• 
It is very likely that additional warming will be seen between 2020 and 2050 
even under the most benign climate responses. This ‘inevitable’ level of 
future warming would be raised by the increase in the lower bounds of the 
ECS uncertainty range between the WCRP and IPCC-AR5 estimates if 
confirmed by the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report.     
• 
There remains a non-negligible probability of warming exceeding 2°C 
above pre-industrial levels even if the world is successful in delivering a 
global emissions pathway expected to be consistent with the Paris 
Agreement. The overall risks of warming exceeding 4°C above pre-industrial 
levels under ambitious global decarbonisation remain low (<1%) under this 
modelling, but is difficult to quantify robustly due to the dependence on 
the representation of the upper tail of climate response distribution, which is 
difficult to constrain.  
IPCC assessed global emissions 
pathways remain good guides 
to what is required to keep 
warming to the Paris 
Agreement even under 
possible narrowing of climate 
sensitivity uncertainty.          
Warming in excess of 2°°C 
cannot be ruled out even 
under a global emissions 
scenario expected to achieve 
the Paris Agreement.           
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
366 
We have also modelled the impact on climate projections of including additional 
climate and carbon cycle feedbacks that generally are not included within the 
definition of climate sensitivity, such as permafrost thawing. There has been further 
understanding of these mechanisms since IPCC-AR5 but no overall change in the 
assessment of their impact on future evolution of global average temperature 
under ambitious global decarbonisation scenarios. Overall, these feedbacks are 
expected to further amplify warming and further increase the risks of warming 
significantly exceeding 2°C, though with only a limited impact on median peak 
warming under rapid global decarbonisation scenarios (Figure 8.4). 
 
Figure 8.4 Global temperature projections  
including additional Earth system feedbacks  
for a rapid global decarbonisation scenario 
 
 
Source: UK Met Office; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Future temperatures are expressed relative to the 2006 – 2015 reference period from IPCC-SR1.5 and offset 
by 0.870C to express warming relative to preindustrial levels. The dashed line shows estimated peak warming for this 
scenario based on the IPCC-SR1.5 global carbon budget assessment. A median estimate of additional feedbacks 
is used for the green trajectory shown here. 
This modelling suggests that the pathways from the IPCC-SR1.5 remain valid 
representations of the global effort necessary to achieve the Paris Agreement, 
while acknowledging the continued range of climate outcomes that could be 
consistent with such emissions pathways. We continue to use these pathways as 
representative of the global effort expected to be necessary to meet the Paris 
Agreement and for analysing the UK’s contribution to the Paris Agreement long-
term temperature goal in this report (Chapter 7).  
 
 
We have also modelled the 
impact of additional climate 
feedbacks on temperature 
projections for rapid global 
decarbonisation scenarios.            
367 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
3. Global CO2 budgets as a guide for mitigation pathways   
Our 2019 Net Zero report looked at the need to reach Net Zero emissions to stop 
continued rising global temperatures. It is the pathway of emissions reductions prior 
to reaching Net Zero that will determine the level of warming that is reached 
before global temperatures stop rising.  
 
This section looks at a constraint on that global pathway – a limit on cumulative 
global CO2 emissions – and the precision with which this constraint can be 
estimated for direct use in national mitigation policy.   
 
a) The concept of a remaining global CO2 emissions budget  
 
The Paris Agreement contains a long-term temperature goal to limit global 
average warming to prevent ever increasing climate impacts (Box 8.5). The 
science of what this means for global GHG emissions has been established for over 
a decade and was summarised in detail in the Committee’s 2019 report on setting 
a Net Zero target in the UK:  
• 
Long-lived greenhouse gases (e.g. CO2, and N2O over timescales of up to 
a century) accumulate in the atmosphere, so continued emissions of these 
gases lead to continually increasing warming. Stopping global temperature 
increasing requires global emissions of these gases to be brought to near 
Net Zero. The total amount of warming that these gases create depends on 
the cumulative total emissions before that point and not on the specifics of 
the emissions pathways (e.g. how much is emitted within a particular year). 
• 
Shorter-lived greenhouse gases such as methane affect the climate in 
qualitatively different ways to CO2, with constant rates of emission leading 
to an approximately near-constant level of raised global average 
temperature. These gases do not need to be brought to Net Zero to stop 
increasing global temperature, but instead need to be stabilised and then 
steadily declined.  
 
This science has been used to estimate the amount of future global cumulative 
CO2 emissions consistent with keeping warming below a given level.* These 
estimates were first provides in the IPCC-AR5 for a range of different warming 
levels, before the estimates were refined and improved for the 1.5°C warming level 
specifically in the IPCC-SR1.5.  
 
 
 
 
*   These cumulative emissions concepts cannot be accurately used for the all-GHG aggregated emissions (using the 
global warming potential metric at a time horizon of 100 years) due to the qualitative difference in how shorter-lived 
GHGs affect the climate. 
The emissions pathway before 
reaching Net Zero is important 
for the level of warming 
reached.  
It is the cumulative emissions of 
long-lived greenhouse gases 
(such as carbon dioxide) that 
matter for their contribution to 
global warming.  
The IPCC has previously 
provided estimates of the 
amount of cumulative global 
carbon dioxide emissions 
consistent with keeping 
warming below certain levels.   
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
368 
Box 8.5 
The purpose of the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal 
The 2015 Paris Agreement agreed a long-term temperature goal as a focus for 
international climate action. Parties committed to holding 'the increase in the global 
average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to 
limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels'.  
 
This long-term temperature goal was chosen as:  
 
• The UNFCCC sets an overall goal of avoiding dangerous climate change.  
• Climate science has shown that the overall level of impacts from climate change is 
well captured by the global average level of warming.  
• Every additional bit of warming is associated with additional climate impacts.  
• The aggregate level of climate impacts expected at 2°C (the previous long-term 
target of the international negotiations) was judged to be too severe overall, through 
the formal UN review of the long-term goal, with a strong push from vulnerable nations 
(such as low-lying island states) to keep the aggregate level of climate impacts 
lower.30  
The Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal can be interpreted in different ways – 
one interpretation is that it is fundamentally about avoiding climate impacts represented 
by the temperature goal as opposed to the level of warming itself. Keeping warming to 
lower levels always brings additional benefits in terms of avoided climate impacts – 
emphasising the value of pursing ‘highest possible ambition’ (as required under the Paris 
Agreement).   
 
 
b) Variations in Paris-aligned global CO2 emissions budgets 
 
There is significant uncertainty in estimates of the future global cumulative CO2 
budgets consistent with the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal. A major 
uncertainty comes from the sensitivity of the climate to GHG emissions (Section 2), 
meaning that it is only ever possible to link an amount of future global cumulative 
CO2 emissions with a probability of keeping warming below a given level.  
 
There are also fundamental choices and definitions required which can be equally 
or more important to the size of the overall estimate:31 
• 
Definition of global warming: The Paris Agreement was informed by the 
IPCC-AR5 assessment of climate impacts at different levels of warming. This 
used the 1850-1900 period as an approximation of pre-industrial levels to 
define the (then) present level of global temperature change and the 
levels of aggregate climate impacts associated with 1.5°C and 2°C of 
warming. Alternative definitions are possible (e.g. using an earlier 
temperature period for pre-industrial levels) but would alter the level of 
impacts linked with global warming levels of 1.5°C and 2°C from those 
considered at the time of the Paris Agreement.32  
• 
Balance of CO2 and non-CO2 GHG emissions: Emissions targets under the 
Paris Agreement are normally set aggregating all GHGs together using the 
Global Warming Potential metric (at time horizon of 100 years). However, 
pledged GHG emissions reductions can be achieved with different 
combinations of CO2 and non-CO2 emissions with differing consequences 
for global temperature.33 This means that any ‘budget’ for cumulative 
global CO2 emissions varies depending on the assumed pathways for 
global non-CO2 GHG emissions.   
There are unavoidable 
choices required in estimating 
the amount of global 
cumulative carbon dioxide 
emissions consistent with the 
Paris Agreement.   
369 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Changes in non-GHG climate forcers: Under the UNFCCC and Paris 
Agreement only a specific basket of GHGs are regulated. There are other 
emissions outside this basket that also affect the climate, including the 
emissions of aerosols particles that reflect sunlight and influence the 
formation of clouds. These aerosol emissions are estimated to have an 
overall cooling effect on the climate. As fossil fuel use is reduced and efforts 
are made to improve air quality, global aerosol emissions are expected to 
fall rapidly. There are various possible pathways for the speed and extent of 
these reductions, with deeper reductions in aerosols allowing less additional 
GHG-induced warming to keeping overall warming to the Paris Agreement 
long-term temperature goal.  
• 
Overshoot: The Paris Agreement does not refer to a specific time horizon for 
its long-term temperature goal. Some pathways have looked at getting 
warming below 1.5°C by 2100 with temperatures allowed to exceed this 
level temporarily beforehand. This would allow more global cumulative CO2 
emissions prior to reaching Net Zero, with some of these emissions removed 
from the atmosphere subsequently through active CO2 removal methods. 
As rapidly declining global temperature after peaking is likely to require 
possibly infeasibly large-scale global net-negative CO2 emissions, it is not 
prudent to plan for an intentional temporary overshoot of warming levels.   
 
These choices depend either on global societal preferences for how far we can 
reduce non-CO2 emissions in the future or on how warming is defined under the 
Paris Agreement. They therefore cannot be robustly sampled in a statistical way, 
unlike for uncertainties in the physical climate response. These definitional and 
societal choices mean a broad range of remaining global carbon budgets could 
be consistent with keeping warming to 1.5°C with approximately 50% probability 
(Figure 8.5) or any other temperature (and probability) level. * This means that only 
a ‘corridor’ of estimates for future global cumulative CO2 emissions with a climate 
target are valid – it is not possible to estimate a single ‘correct’ value.  
 
 
 
 
 
*   The largest uncertainties in Figure 8.5 would by themselves suggest a range of 290 – 1060 GtCO2 (from 2018) for 
keeping warming to 1.5°C with 50% probability. The IPCC-SR1.5 central budget for this probability of keeping 
warming to 1.5C with 50% probability was 580 GtCO2. These factors also underlie the 319 – 751 GtCO2 range in 
cumulative CO2 emissions (from 2020 to date of Net Zero CO2 emissions) in modelled global emissions pathways 
assessed to keep warming to below 1.5°C with no or low overshoot by IPCC-SR1.5.  
These choices depend on 
global societal preferences and 
definitions of warming. A very 
wide range of future cumulative 
CO2 emissions could be 
consistent with the Paris 
Agreement due to these factors 
– a precise estimate is not 
possible.     
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
370 
Figure 8.5 Variations in future global cumulative 
CO2 emissions for keeping warming to 1.50C 
 
 
Source: IPCC (2018) Special Report on Global Warming of 1.50C; CCC analysis. 
Notes: A remaining cumulative emissions budget of 580 GtCO2 (from 2018 onwards) from IPCC-SR1.5 is used as a 
reference case to express these changes against (consistent with a 50% chance of keeping warming to this level 
when allowing for physical response uncertainties). Impacts on the remaining emissions budget is calculated for 
alternative non-CO2 and non-GHG effects using the methodology in Section 2. SM. 112 of IPCC-SR1.5 Chapter 2. 
The minimum and maximum reductions across the ensemble of scenarios assessed to be consistent with keeping 
warming to 1.50C with no or low overshoot used. A log-normal distribution is used to assess the impact of an 
alternative shape for the climate response distribution. The impact of using an earlier period for preindustrial is 
quantified using an quantified using an additional 0.10C of historical warming. Budgets using an alternative 
definition of global temperature are taken from IPCC-SR1.5. 
 
c) Implications for national pathways to Net Zero 
 
The unavoidable dependence of estimates of remaining global future cumulative 
CO2 budgets consistent with the Paris Agreement on societal choices, create large 
variations in the estimates for budgets expected to be consistent with the Paris 
Agreement long-term temperature goal. 
 
This limits the utility of using global remaining cumulative emissions budgets to 
directly constrain the UK’s emissions trajectory towards the 2050 Net Zero target: 
• 
The many different totals for future global cumulative CO2 emissions that 
could be consistent with the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal 
span a very large range and do not provide an unambiguous global 
starting point for allocating shares to countries.  
• 
Allocating shares to countries requires additional considerations of 
common-but-differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities in 
light of national circumstances, as required under the Paris Agreement. This 
introduces a further set of choices and value judgements (Chapter 7).  
There are limitations on the use 
of global CO2 budgets to 
constrain national emissions 
pathways in a robust way.      
371 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
UK carbon budgets are set on an aggregated all-GHG emissions basis and 
not using CO2 (or long-lived GHG) emissions alone. Global cumulative 
emissions budgets are only robustly defined for CO2 and other long-lived 
GHGs and not for cumulative aggregated emissions of all GHG emissions.*  
 
The Paris Agreement does not attempt to allocate remaining global cumulative 
CO2 emissions estimates to individual countries, but rather requires ‘highest possible 
ambition’ from all parties, and that parties put forward commitments that reflect 
their common-but-differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. We 
consider that a sensible approach in the face of the uncertainties and boundaries 
of the science and have designed the analysis in this report on that basis. 
 
 
 
 
 
*   When using the Global Warming Potential metric which is standard practice for international GHG accounting and 
emissions inventories.  
We do not attempt to use 
these global budgets to derive 
the UK’s emissions pathway in 
this advice.       
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
372 
4. Minimising the UK’s future contribution to climate change  
Our advice on setting a Net Zero target in the UK highlighted that reaching Net 
Zero GHG emissions in the UK would be consistent with stopping the UK’s 
contribution to increasing global temperature (from its territorial emissions) and 
beginning to reduce its all-time impact on the global average temperature.  
 
Section 3 highlighted that it is the pathway of global emissions reductions prior to 
Net Zero that will determine the amount of warming before global temperature 
peaks: 
• 
For long-lived GHG emissions (such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide) 
the cumulative total emissions prior to reaching Net Zero mainly determines 
how emissions of these GHGs contribute to peak global temperatures.  
• 
For shorter-lived GHG emissions (such as methane) the rate of emissions 
over the few decades prior to global temperature peaking mainly 
determines the contribution from these gases to peak warming.34 As peak 
warming occurs around 2050 for scenarios consistent with keeping warming 
below 1.5°C, this requires near-term reductions in these emissions to 
minimise their contribution to peak warming.     
Rapid and sustained reductions in both long-lived and shorter-lived GHG emissions 
will be needed over the several decades for the world to keep additional warming 
sufficiently low to keep within the warming limits of the Paris Agreement.    
Well-mixed GHG emissions affect the climate similarly independent of where they 
are emitted, so these principles also apply to the UK’s contribution to global 
temperature increase (from its territorial emissions) prior to reaching Net Zero by 
2050:  
• 
Reaching Net Zero emissions by 2050 with no near-term action to 
substantially reduce emissions prior to 2030 would lead to a significantly 
higher warming contribution from UK territorial emissions than under the 
range of exploratory pathways developed within this report, all of which 
prioritise early reductions in emissions where possible (Figure 8.6).  
• 
If this delay of ambition was replicated globally it would be close to 
impossible to achieve the 1.5°C end of the Paris Agreement long-term 
temperature goal, as all modelled global pathways require significant 
reductions this decade to keep the required post-2030 reductions within the 
limit of what might be feasible.  
Pathways attempting to reach Net Zero by 2050 without early action to reduce 
emissions would also carry substantial risks of failing to achieve the target, 
challenges in delivering the low-emissions transition in a just way, and would not 
capture the economic opportunities and co-benefits that actions over the next 
decade are expected to bring (Chapter 9). It would also seriously undermine the 
efforts to achieve the necessary increase in global near-term ambition given the 
UK’s role as host of COP26.  
 
 
Delivering on the Paris 
Agreement requires rapid 
global reductions in emissions 
in the near-term as well as 
plans to reach Net Zero.        
Minimising UK cumulative 
emissions of long-lived 
greenhouse gases on the 
pathway to Net Zero will help 
to minimise the UK’s 
contribution to climate 
change.         
373 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 8.6 Estimates of warming from UK territorial 
emissions under exploratory scenarios and a  
stylised ‘delayed action’ scenario 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Emissions of F-gases are excluded from these calculations but their relative contribution to warming is 
expected to be relatively small compared to the total of the other GHGs. Contributions to warming are calculated 
using the climate response functions for calculating emissions metrics in IPCC-AR5. This provides a central estimate 
of the future warming and the difference between the scenarios considered here but does not allow for 
uncertainty in the climate response to GHG emissions. Although this is substantial it would similarly scale the level of 
warming for all the scenarios, meaning qualitative comparisons between them are expected to be robust. The 
stylised ‘no action to 2030’ pathway assumes no emissions reductions over the 2020s before emissions linearly 
decline to Net Zero by 2050. 
 
a) Additional non-CO2 climate impacts from aviation 
There are additional direct climate impacts associated with UK activity that are not 
explicitly regulated under the Paris Agreement or the UK Climate Change Act. 
These include changes in the reflectivity of the land-surface with changing land 
use, emissions of aerosol particles and non-CO2 effects from aviation and shipping.  
 
Aviation non-CO2 climate effects are complex and large uncertainties persist, but 
best-estimates suggest that these currently represent the majority of global 
aviation’s impact on the climate (Box 8.6). Unlike aviation CO2 emissions, these 
non-CO2 effects are shorter-lived and largely depend on sustained aviation activity 
to maintain them.  
 
 
 
 
Aviation has additional 
warming effects on the 
climate that are not covered 
by the Climate Change Act.          
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
374 
Box 8.6 
The science of aviation non-CO2 climate impacts 
Aviation produces a range of non-CO2 pollutants that affect the climate in different 
ways. These include emissions that have a warming effect, such as nitrogen oxides, and 
those that have a cooling effect, such as sulphates.  
Planes can also create contrails (long trails of cloud caused by aircraft flying through 
supersaturated air) depending on the local atmospheric conditions. These high-altitude 
contrails can help the formation of cirrus clouds, which have a relatively large warming 
effect on the global surface air temperature.   
 
A new study has provided an updated synthesis of the effects of global aviation on the 
climate:35 
 
• Overall, the net aviation non-CO2 effect is to warm the climate. Globally, non-CO2 
effects contribute around two-thirds of the total aviation effective radiative forcing – 
twice as much as historical CO2 emissions from aviation. The dominant non-CO2 effects 
are found to be those from the formation of contrail-induced cirrus clouds, followed by 
the net effect of the emission of nitrogen oxides on atmospheric chemistry.  
• These non-CO2 effects are generally short-lived, meaning that if aviation emissions 
were stopped then their effects on the climate will quickly dissipate. In contrast, CO 2 
emissions from aviation will result in elevated atmospheric CO2 concentrations for 
centuries into the future.  
• Some possible aviation non-CO2 effects remain unquantified. The effect of particulate 
emissions on the reflectivity of low clouds are still too difficult to quantify but might be 
a cooling effect that offsets a significant fraction of aviation non-CO2 warming from 
other sources.  
It remains extremely challenging to accurately aggregate the effects of these non-CO2 
impacts into a CO2-equivalence ‘multiplier’ for use within climate policy mechanisms. 
These effects still have significant uncertainties associated with them and their size can 
depend on the conditions under which the activity occurs, unlike for well-mixed 
greenhouse gases which affect the climate similarly independently of where they occur.  
 
Efforts to reduce aviation non-CO2 effects will help to lower peak levels of global warming 
if implemented prior to the date of global Net Zero CO2 emissions (e.g. around 2050-2075 
for pathways that meet the Paris Agreement long-term temperature goal), provided 
these are not achieved at the expense of additional CO2 emissions (which would create 
more warming in the long-term). 
 
The future evolution of UK aviation non-CO2 effects will depend strongly on the 
trajectory of UK aviation demand (Box 8.7). In the absence of technological 
breakthroughs that can help mitigate aviation non-CO2 effects, scenarios that 
keep aviation demand lower will sustain lower non-CO2 warming than those with 
higher aviation demands.* It is therefore not appropriate to apply a fixed ratio or 
multiplier to estimate non-CO2 impacts as part of the single basket of GHG 
emissions. However, the UK should attempt to report annually a best estimate of 
the impact of these non-CO2 effects on global temperatures, as they are a 
significant part of aviation’s impact on the climate. 
 
For consistency with the Net Zero target, under which UK GHG emissions are 
reduced to Net Zero to stop contributing to further increases in global temperature 
by 2050, UK aviation non-CO2 effects should also target stopping contributing to 
further increases in global temperature by this same date. Without the 
development of mitigation options for these non-CO2 effects, this would require 
year-on-year demand growth to be reduced to essentially zero by or before 2050.  
 
 
*   Scenarios in which people are most willing to change their behaviour and fly the least would keep non-CO2 
warming from UK aviation below 2018 levels in 2050.  
How UK aviation non-CO2 
warming changes in the future 
depends strongly on the future 
pathway for aviation demand.            
UK aviation non-CO2 warming 
should be capped by or 
before 2050 to align to the 
ambition of ending the UK’s 
contribution to global warming 
by 2050.              
Globally, non-CO2 effects from 
aviation contribute about two-
thirds of the total aviation 
radiative forcing.          
375
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Box 8.7 
Future UK aviation non-CO2 climate impacts 
We have projected best estimates of the change in non-CO2 warming from UK aviation 
consistent with our exploratory scenarios to 2050 for aviation demand and GHG emissions. 
These estimates rely on the latest synthesis of aviation non-CO2 effects.36   
In 2020, there has been an estimated 60% drop in UK air travel due to COVID-19 
compared to 2019 levels. The short-lived nature of aviation non-CO2 effects means a 
similar percentage reduction in the radiative forcing from aviation non-CO2 effects will 
have also occurred this year. 
There are significant variations in 2050 aviation non-CO2 warming across our exploratory 
scenarios, largely depending on the assumed long-term future aviation demand (Figure 
B8.7): 
•
A Baseline trajectory with high growth in activity would see a significant growth in
aviation non-CO2 impacts by 2050, rising by 45% from the level of warming sustained
by UK aviation non-CO2 emissions in 2018.
•
Demand management consistent with Headwinds and Balanced Net Zero Pathway
scenarios limits future demand growth but would still see the warming sustained by
non-CO2 effects increase by 7-14% by 2050 compared to 2018.
•
The Widespread Innovation scenario reduces aviation GHG emissions through
sustainable aviation fuels and higher efficiency, allowing higher demand than in the
Balanced Net Zero Pathway. However, without additional mitigation options to reduce
non-CO2 effects, this scenario would mean a 24% increase in non-CO2 warming by
2050 from 2018 levels.
•
In Widespread Engagement and Tailwinds, there is declining demand, which leads to
the warming sustained by non-CO2 aviation effects falling to 14-19% below 2018 levels
by 2050.
In these scenarios we have not explicitly modelled other technologies that could reduce 
non-CO2 effects (except for electrification), due to the current lack of a robust evidence 
base in this area.  
Potential options being explored include use of low-aromatic sustainable aviation fuels 
(to reduce soot and therefore cirrus formation), development of low NOx engine designs, 
re-routing of aircraft to avoid cirrus formation zones in the atmosphere (although this 
would require more accurate forecasting, and may increase CO 2 emissions), or switching 
to electric propulsion or cleaner fuels in these zones.  
Further research and testing are required to quantify the potential of these mitigation 
options, although early stage analysis suggests that they may be able to reduce UK 
aviation non-CO2 warming effects in 2050 by 5-20 percentage-points. 
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
376 
Figure B8.7 Warming from UK non-CO2 aviation 
effects in 2050 relative to 2018 
 
Source: Lee, D. et.al. (2020) The contribution of global aviation to anthropogenic climate forcing for 2000 to 
2018. Atmospheric Environment, 244, 117834; CCC analysis. 
Notes: These bars represent a central estimate of the warming from UK aviation’s non-CO2 emissions under the 
exploratory scenarios considered in this report. These are expressed relative to 2018 levels and are based on the 
warming equivalent emissions metrics from Lee et.al. (2020). There is substantial uncertainty in the absolute size 
of non-CO2 warming effects from aviation, but the relative changes across scenarios are expected to be more 
robust. The UK aviation passenger demand growth across these scenarios are (2050 relative to 2018): Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway = +25% (no net airport expansion), Headwinds = +25%, Widespread Engagement = -15%, 
Widespread Innovation = +50%, Tailwinds = -15%, Baseline = +64%. 
 
 
 
 
377 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
5. The need to adapt to a changing climate 
This section summarises the evidence that indicates climate impacts will continue 
to increase even under a rapid reduction in global emissions and could be greater 
still if global emissions reductions are not sufficiently rapid to achieve the Paris 
Agreement.  
 
This emphasises the need for the UK to adapt to the effects of a changing climate 
and support climate-vulnerable countries around the world to adapt to climate 
impacts as part of its contribution to the global effort to address climate change. 
Planning for a range of climate outcomes is prudent even while also aiming to 
achieve the Paris Agreement.  
 
a) Climate risks continue to increase with additional warming 
 
The overall level of impacts from climate change will increase with every 
additional small increment in warming.  
 
A growing body of research, summarised by the recent IPCC Special Reports and 
Fifth Assessment Report, shows how higher levels of warming levels result in 
increasingly severe and pervasive impacts with effects on humans and ecosystems 
worldwide.  
• 
1°C above preindustrial levels: Today’s level of warming is already having 
significant impacts around the world. The frequency of heatwaves has 
increased in most land regions.37 There are demonstrable impacts on heat-
related mortality particularly for elderly and vulnerable people.38 Patterns of 
water availability are changing due to melting land-ice and shifting rainfall 
in some parts of the world. The frequency and intensity of heavy 
precipitation has increased at a global scale due to climate change, with 
knock-on implications for flood risks. Flooding is also increasing in coastal 
areas as climate change pushes up sea-levels. Climate change is being 
increasingly linked with making the conditions for wildfires more likely.39 
Ecosystems and species have been impacted by climate change, with 
many species changing their geographical extent and/or migratory 
patterns. Climate change has affected crop yields, with more negative 
impacts than positive effects.40 
• 
1.5°C above preindustrial levels: Impacts at 1.5°C warming will be more 
severe than at present. Hot temperature extremes will increase more 
rapidly than the global average temperature, and over twice as fast in 
some parts of the world (e.g. mid-latitude summers). Across the globe there 
would be around twice as many people affected by river flooding than 
over the recent past.41 The intensity and frequency of heavy rainfall will 
generally increase. Around 6% of insects, 4% of vertebrates, and 8% of 
plants would lose >50% of their current species ranges.42 There will be very 
large impacts on some ecosystems (e.g. coral reefs are projected to 
decline by a further 70–90% at 1.5°C).        
2°C above preindustrial levels: At 2°C warming many regions will 
experience considerable and damaging climate change impacts 
including extreme weather and associated detrimental effects on water 
availability and food production. Heat-related mortality risks increase 
beyond the risks at 1.5°C. Across the globe there would be around a 170% 
increase in the number of people affected by river flooding than over the 
Climate impacts increase with 
every bit of additional 
warming.               
Significant climate impacts are 
already being experienced 
today.                
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
378 
recent past. Widespread damage to ecosystems would occur with the rate 
of climate change likely too fast for many species to be able to migrate to 
regions with compatible climates. Around 18% of insects, 8% of vertebrates, 
and 16% of plants would lose >50% of their geographical range. The risk of 
irreversible loss of many marine and coastal ecosystems (e.g. coral reefs) 
increases significantly for warming at 2°C and above. Risks of 'large-scale 
singularities' in the climate system (e.g. triggering inevitable loss of major ice 
sheets or collapse in the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation) would 
be ‘moderate’ at this level of warming.  
• 
3°C above preindustrial levels: Major and severe impacts would be 
experienced worldwide. For example heat waves would become 
prevalent across large parts of the world, with around 4.5 billion people 
exposed to associated serious health risks.43 Risks to land-based ecosystems 
would be very high with around 25% of species expected to lose over half 
of their geographical range by 2100.44 There would be a high risk of 'large-
scale singular events' at 3°C. 
• 
4°C above preindustrial levels: Warming and increases in humidity in many 
regions could make outdoor working, for example in agriculture, very 
difficult or even impossible based on people’s current tolerance to heat 
extremes. Many freshwater and land-based species would face substantial 
risk of extinction. Large risks to the functioning of the global food system 
could occur with a substantial chance of large-scale crop failures. Large-
scale failures of food systems and increases in climate-related extreme 
events could contribute to large-scale migration of people around the 
world creating pressures on social and economic systems with difficult to 
predict geopolitical consequences. 
 
Any additional warming is associated with increases in climate change impacts. 
Poorer and more vulnerable parts of society are expected to be relatively more 
exposed to impacts from many of these increasing climate risks. However, the UK is 
not immune from these risks and needs to adapt to the changing climate, even for 
the lower levels of warming. Box 8.8 summarises the impact of different levels of 
global average warming for the UK.  
 
Box 8.8 
Climate change risks for the UK under different global warming levels 
The UK is experiencing climate change impacts today which are predicted to increase 
further under additional future global warming. The UK Climate Change Risk Assessment 
(CCRA) provides a regular assessment of the climate risks (and opportunities) associated 
with different levels of global average warming: 
 
• Current warming level (~1.1°C above preindustrial levels): The UK’s average annual 
temperature has increased by around 1.2°C  relative to pre-industrial levels, sea level 
has risen by ~16 cm since 1900, there is some evidence of increasing heavy rainfall 
depending on the metric used. The likelihood of summer heatwaves such as that in 
2018 has doubled over the past few decades.  
• Less than 2°C above preindustrial levels: If global average warming is kept to the long-
term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement, the UK is predicted to experience 
increased  average annual temperatures of around 0.6°C by 2050, heavy rainfall 
would see an estimated 10% increase, and hot summers like 2018 will occur every 
other year (central estimates). Sea levels around the UK would rise by a further 3 - 37 
cm (by 2060) compared to today and due to the slow response of the ocean to 
climate warming continue to rise reaching 5 - 67 cm above present levels by 2100.  
Additional warming will 
increase the overall level of 
climate risks in the UK. 
379 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Water deficits could affect around 15% of water resource zones, but it is likely that 
adaptation measures could manage most of the increased risk from flooding and 
water scarcity in 2050, though not necessarily by the end of the century. 
• 3°C or more above preindustrial levels: A global mean warming of around 3°C or 
more by the end of the century would result in a very large increase in seasonal 
changes and weather extremes in the UK.  Winter rainfall could increase by up to 50% 
and summer rainfall decrease by 60% by 2100.  Water deficits across England could 
rise to over 5.5 billion litres per day, and the number of people living in areas of 
significant flood risk would more than double. The UK would also experience centuries 
of sea level rise; with 1 metre or more becoming inevitable. Daily temperatures 
exceeding 40°C could occur every 3-4 years. At this level of warming, significant and 
systemic impacts are projected to occur, and acceptance of impacts might be the 
only viable adaptation strategy in some cases.  
Lower levels of warming are also expected to bring some opportunities and benefits to 
the UK: 
 
• Outdoor activities may become more attractive, helping to promote healthier 
lifestyles. 
• Cold-related deaths would be expected to decline with future warming, though the 
benefits could be largely offset by an increasing elderly population. 
• Growing seasons may lengthen and productivity in agriculture and forestry could 
improve with warmer summers. However, these benefits would only be realised if 
water and soil quality are not limiting, which they could be even at low levels of 
warming. 
Source: CCC (2017) Climate Change Risk Assessment 2017 Evidence Report. 
 
b) A wide range of warming outcomes remains possible  
 
Past global emissions have increased the global average temperature by more 
than 1.1°C above pre-industrial levels, with impacts now being realised around the 
world. While past emissions are not expected to commit the world to significant 
amounts of additional warming above this level, a large fraction of the observed 
warming will be maintained for several centuries even if global CO2 emissions were 
instantaneously reduced to Net Zero according to the latest climate models.45  
 
As global emissions continue, warming, and climate impacts, will increase:  
• 
Additional warming is expected even under the most ambitious global 
emissions pathways and best-case climate outcomes. Under global 
emissions trajectory reaching Net Zero CO2 emissions around 2050 
additional warming of over 0.2°C is expected by mid-century in nearly all 
possible climate outcomes.46 The recent estimates by the WCRP assessment 
on climate sensitivity suggest that inevitable levels of warming may be 
slightly higher than this, further emphasising the need to improve 
preparedness for additional climate impacts.   
• 
Under global emission reduction scenarios that aim to deliver on the Paris 
Agreement, exceedance of 2°C warming still remains possible. Our 
modelling of the climate outcomes consistent with a rapid global reduction 
in CO2 emissions to Net Zero by 2060 suggests that there remains a chance 
(around 10 – 20% probability) of seeing warming exceed 2°C by 2100 even 
if this scenario was successfully delivered.  
• 
Current global pledges are still insufficient to deliver on the Paris Agreement 
and central expectations of future warming are for higher levels. Under a 
continuation of the global ambition needed to achieve current 2030 
emissions targets, the median estimate of warming in 2100 is around 3°C 
with further rises after 2100 (Figure 8.7).  
Best case scenarios will see 
some inevitable increase in 
climate risks.                  
It remains possible that 
warming could exceed 2°C 
even under rapid global 
decarbonisation scenarios.                   
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
380 
Recent commitments from large emitters such as the US and China to 
reach Net Zero by 2050 could, if achieved, lower the median level of 
expected warming to around 2.3 – 2.4°C above pre-industrial levels by 
2100, but are not sufficient on their own to achieve the Paris Agreement.47 
Increased ambition towards trajectories expected to be consistent with the 
Paris Agreement would bring rapid benefits in terms of reduced rate of 
warming and the climate risks experienced, reducing 2020 to 2050 warming 
by up to 0.3°C. 48   
• 
Very high levels of warming and climate impacts could be possible under 
current global ambition for emissions reductions. Under global emissions 
scenarios consistent with the ambition of present NDCs continued across 
the rest of the century, there remains a significant possibility of warming in 
excess of 4°C by 2100, with associated very high levels of climate impacts. 
Higher warming also increases the risk of low likelihood, high impact events 
including abrupt or very fast rates of climate change, and irreversible 
changes, some of which could then accelerate global warming further. 
 
The climate impacts being felt today, the inevitability of future increases in climate 
risk and the wide range of climate outcomes possible over the rest of the century 
all highlight the importance of continued and increasing effort on preparing for 
climate risks alongside emissions reductions. The CCC’s Adaptation Committee has 
advised the Government that it needs to implement resilience measures for a 
minimum 2°C warming level and should also include consideration of adaptation 
planning for up to the 4°C level. The Adaptation Committee’s latest report to 
Parliament shows that the UK is not yet prepared for the 2°C level, let alone the 4°C 
level.49  
 
 
The current level of global 
emissions reduction ambition 
means warming exceeding 
4°C by 2100 cannot be ruled 
out.                   
The UK should be planning for 
a range of climate outcomes 
as part of effective adaptation 
policy.                    
Our assessment of adaptation 
progress suggests that the UK is 
falling short.                     
381 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 8.7 Global temperatures projections for 
a global emissions scenario consistent with 
current global ambition for 2030 emissions 
reductions 
 
Source: UK Met Office; CCC analysis. 
Notes: Future temperatures are expressed relative to the 2006-2015 reference period from IPCC-SR1.5 and offset by 
0.870C to express warming relative to preindustrial levels. A median estimate of additional feedback is used for the 
green trajectory shown here. This scenario is one in which current commitments for emissions reductions in 2030 are 
achieved with a similar decarbonisation effort continued over the rest of the century. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 8: Scientific context for setting the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
382 
1 CCC (2015) The scientific and international context for the Fifth Carbon Budget; CCC (2019) Net 
Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming.  
2 UK Met Office (2020) Confirmation that 2019 concludes warmest decade. 
3 WMO (2020) WMO Statement on the State of the Global Climate in 2019; Haustein, K. et al. 
(2017) A real-time Global Warming Index. Scientific Reports, 7, 15417; globalwarmingindex.org.  
4 Based on Church, J. & White, N. (2011) Sea-Level Rise from the Late 19th to the Early 21st 
Century. Surveys in Geophysics, 32, 585–602 extended to the present day using satellite altimetry 
date from AVISO.  
5 Kendon, M. et al. (2020) State of the UK Climate in 2019. International Journal of Climatology, 40, 
S1, 1-69.    
6 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (2016) Attribution of Extreme 
Weather Events in the Context of Climate Change. 
7 IPCC (2018) Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5ºC – Chapter 3: Impacts of 1.5ºC global 
warming on natural and human systems. 
8 Mitchell, D. et al. (2016) Attributing human mortality during extreme heat waves to 
anthropogenic climate change. Environmental Research Letters, 11, 7. 
9 Jones, M. et al. (2020) Climate Change Increases the Risk of Wildfires. 
10 van Oldenborgh, G. J. et al. (2017) Attribution of extreme rainfall from Hurricane Harvey. 
Environmental Research Letters, 12, 124009. 
11 IEA (2020) Global CO2 emissions in 2019.  
12 IEA (2020) World Energy Outlook 2020.  
13 UN Environment Programme (2019) Emissions Gap Report 2019.  
14 WMO (2020) Statement on the State of the Global Climate in 2019.  
15 Saunois, M. et al. (2020) The Global Methane Budget 2000 – 2017. Earth System Science Data, 
12, 1-63; Tian, H. et al. (2020) A comprehensive quantification of global nitrous oxide sources and 
sinks. Nature, 586, 248–256.  
16 Jackson, R. et al. (2020) Increasing anthropogenic methane emissions arise equally from 
agricultural and fossil fuel sources. Environ. Res. Lett.,15, 071002. 
17 NOAA (2020) The NOAA Annual Greenhouse Gas Index (AGGI). 
18 Bellouin, N. et al. (2019) Bounding Global Aerosol Radiative Forcing of Climate Change. Reviews 
of Geophysics, 58, 1.  
19 UK Met Office (2020) Coronavirus will impact the atmospheric CO2 record – but not enough to 
slow global heating. 
20 Forster, P. et al. (2020) Latest climate models confirm need for urgent mitigation. Nature Climate 
Change, 10, 7–10. 
21 Zelinka, M. et al. (2020). Causes of higher climate sensitivity in CMIP6 models. Geophysical 
Research Letters, 47. 
22 Tokarska, K. et al. (2020) Past warming trend constrains future warming in CMIP6 models. 
Science Advances, 6, 12; Nijsse, F., Cox, P. & Williamson, M. (2020) Emergent constraints on 
transient climate response (TCR) and equilibrium climate sensitivity (ECS) from historical warming 
in CMIP5 and CMIP6 models. Earth Syst. Dynam., 11, 737–750; Flynn, C. & Mauritsen, T. (2020) On 
the climate sensitivity and historical warming evolution in recent coupled model ensembles. 
Atmos. Chem. Phys., 20, 7829–7842; Jiménez-de-la-Cuesta, D. & Mauritsen, T. (2019) Emergent 
constraints on Earth’s transient and equilibrium response to doubled CO2 from post-1970s global 
warming. Nature Geoscience, 12, 902–905.  
23 Bjordal, J. et al. (2020) Equilibrium climate sensitivity above 5 °C plausible due to state-
dependent cloud feedback. Nature Geoscience, 13, 718–721. 
 
 
 
 
383 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
 
 
24 Arora, V. et al. (2020) Carbon–concentration and carbon–climate feedbacks in CMIP6 models 
and their comparison to CMIP5 models. Biogeosciences, 17, 4173–4222; Jones, C. & 
Friedlingstein, P. (2020) Quantifying process-level uncertainty contributions to TCRE and carbon 
budgets for meeting Paris Agreement climate targets. Environmental Research Letters, 15, 
074019.  
25 Sherwood, S. et al. (2020) An Assessment of Earth's Climate Sensitivity Using Multiple Lines of 
Evidence. Reviews of Geophysics, 58, 4.  
26 Meinshausen, M., Raper, S. & Wigley, T. (2011) Emulating coupled atmosphere-ocean and 
carbon cycle models with a simpler model, MAGICC6 – Part 1: Model description and 
calibration. Atmos. Chem. Phys., 11, 1417–1456; Lowe, J. et al. (2009) How difficult is it to recover 
from dangerous levels of global warming? Environmental Research Letters, 4, 014012. 
27 Lamboll, R. et al. (2020) Silicone v1.0.0: an open-source Python package for inferring missing 
emissions data for climate change research. Geoscientific Model Development 13, 5259-5275. 
28 IPCC (2013) Chapter 6 - Carbon and Other Biogeochemical Cycles,  Working Group 1 - 5th 
Assessment Report. 
29 Lowe, J. & Bernie, D. (2018) The impact of Earth system feedbacks on carbon budgets and 
climate response. The impact of Earth system feedbacks on carbon budgets and climate 
response. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A, 376, 20170263. 
30 UNFCCC (2015) Report on the structured expert dialogue on the 2013–2015 review. 
31 CONSTRAIN (2019) Zero In On The Remaining Carbon Budget And Decadal Warming Rates.  
32 Rogelj, J., Schleussner, C.-F. & Hare, W. (2018) Getting It Right Matters: Temperature Goal 
Interpretations in Geoscience Research. Geophysical Research Letters, 44, 10, 662–665. 
33 Denison, S., Forster, P. & Smith, C. (2019) Guidance on emissions metrics for nationally 
determined contributions under the Paris Agreement. Environmental Research Letters, 14, 12. 
34 Smith, S. et al. (2012) Equivalence of greenhouse-gas emissions for peak temperature limits. 
Nature Climate Change, 2, 535-538.  
35 Lee, D. et al. (2020) The contribution of global aviation to anthropogenic climate forcing for 
2000 to 2018. Atmospheric Environment, 244, 117834. 
36 Lee, D. et al. (2020) The contribution of global aviation to anthropogenic climate forcing for 
2000 to 2018. Atmospheric Environment, 244, 117834. 
37 IPCC (2018) Chapter 3 - Impacts of 1.5°C of Global Warming on Natural and Human systems. 
38 Ebi, K.L. et al. (2017) Detecting and attributing health burdens to climate change. Environmental 
Health Perspectives, 125 (8), 085004. 
39 Jones, M. et al. (2020) Climate Change Increases the Risk of Wildfires. 
40 IPCC (2014) Summary for policymakers, Working Group 2 - 5th Assessment Report. 
41 Alfieri, L. et al. (2017) Global projections of river flood risk in a warmer world. Earth’s Future, 5, 2, 
171-182. 
42 Warren, R. et al. (2018) The projected effect on insects, vertebrates, and plants of limiting global 
warming to 1.5°C rather than 2°C. Science, 360, 6390, 791-795. 
43 Arnell, N. et al. (2015) The global impacts of climate change under 1.5ºC, 2ºC, 3ºC and 4ºC 
pathways (AVOID2). 
44 Warren, R. et al. ( 2018) The implications of the United Nations Paris Agreement on climate 
change for globally significant biodiversity areas. Climatic Change, 147 (3-4), 395-409 
45 MacDougall, A. et al. (2020) Is there warming in the pipeline? A multi-model analysis of the Zero 
Emissions Commitment from CO2. Biogeosciences, 17, 2987–3016.  
46 CCC (2020) How much more climate change is inevitable for the UK? 
47 Climate Action Tracker (2020) Biden’s election could bring a tipping point putting Paris 
Agreement 1.5 degree limit ‘within striking distance’. 
48 Forster, P. et al. (2020) Current and future global climate impacts resulting from COVID-19. 
Nature Climate Change, 10, 913–919. 
49 CCC (2019) Progress in preparing for climate change – 2019 Progress Report to Parliament. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
384 
The shape of the emissions path to 
Net Zero 
 
 
1. Delivering on the Paris Agreement 
389 
2. Supporting the recovery and maintaining momentum 
391 
3. Making progress in every sector in the 2020s 
394 
4. Why the recommendation does not require faster progress 
408 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
386 
Introduction and key messages 
 
Our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget (i.e. a 78% reduction in emissions from 
1990 to 2035), requires faster progress prior to 2035 than it does thereafter to 2050. 
Emissions must fall by an annual average of 21 MtCO2e from 2019 to 2035, then by 
an annual average of 13 MtCO2e to 2050. As a percentage of the previous year’s 
emissions, the emissions reduction generally increases over time, given the falling 
level of remaining emissions (e.g. an emissions reduction that would represent a 
10% reduction in 2040 might be a 50% reduction in 2049). 
 
The shape of our emissions trajectory is an outcome of our bottom-up scenario 
construction, reflecting the principles that we have built into them (see Chapter 1). 
This chapter addresses the question of whether it would be better to act more 
slowly and benefit later from learnings that lead to lower costs and having longer 
to scale up solutions. The Committee concludes that it would not be appropriate 
to act more slowly, reflecting four key considerations laid out in this chapter: 
• 
The UK’s global contribution. Delivering the goals of the Paris Agreement 
requires deep global emissions reductions over the next decade as well as 
reaching global Net Zero emissions of long-lived greenhouse gases (GHGs) 
in the longer term. To align to the Paris Agreement, UK carbon budgets 
must reflect the ‘highest possible ambition’ for near-term emissions 
reduction. This is particularly important given the UK’s role as President of 
COP26. Minimising the cumulative emissions of long-lived GHGs on the path 
to Net Zero, alongside ambitious reductions in other GHGs will keep the 
contribution from UK territorial emissions as low as possible.  
• 
Investing for the recovery, and for the future. The changes under our 
pathways are highly capital-intensive. The required investment programme 
can help boost the UK’s economic recovery from the COVID pandemic to 
the benefit of GDP and employment (see Chapters 5 and 6). Record-low 
interest rates currently provide a further reason to fast-track investments. 
Investing in low-carbon solutions will ensure that the UK is preparing for the 
future as the world increases its ambition on climate action. A slower 
emissions reduction would mean a smaller investment programme and a 
lower boost to the economy and jobs, with greater risk of stranded assets 
from high-carbon investments. 
• 
Building on current momentum. Our proposed budget would send a clear 
signal that the UK is open for low-carbon investment. Since the UK set its Net 
Zero 2050 target in mid-2019, considerable momentum has built in 
businesses, in local/regional Government, in policymaking and in the UK 
population at large. Net Zero has brought a clarity that all emissions must 
go, and that no sector can be left behind. Our proposed budget aims to 
extend that clarity to the coming 15 years by requiring strong action across 
every emitting part of the economy. A weaker carbon budget would 
undermine that clarity, adding risk and costs to businesses looking to 
support the transition to Net Zero in 2050.  
• 
Making progress in every sector. Our bottom-up scenarios (described in 
Chapters 2 and 3) reflect the challenges and opportunities in every sector 
of the economy in reducing emissions towards Net Zero. Our pathways 
reflect the need to make progress to prepare for the 2050 target, and the 
benefits of making that progress. The pathways see the most rapid 
emissions reductions over 2025-2035, once opportunities have been 
created during an initial period to develop low-carbon supply chains, 
markets and infrastructure. 
These rapid near-term 
emissions reductions are 
essential to the aims of the 
Paris Agreement. 
Our pathway for emissions 
reduces more quickly before 
2035 than afterwards. 
Several considerations, 
reflected in our scenarios, 
points to rapid action to 2035. 
The time is now right to make 
the investments to get on track 
to Net Zero and help the 
economic recovery. 
Our Sixth Carbon Budget 
would send a clear signal to 
UK businesses investing in low-
carbon solutions across the 
economy. 
387 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Cost-saving opportunities. Many low-carbon choices can save money 
compared to high-carbon alternatives. These include improvements to 
energy efficiency and resource efficiency across the economy, 
deployment of wind farms, and a rapid shift towards electric vehicles. We 
have included deployment of these at a rapid but feasible rate. 
• 
Health benefits. Our Balanced Pathway features actions over the next 15 
years that would both reduce emissions and have significant benefits to 
health. These include people choosing to adopt healthier diets, exercise 
benefits of walking and cycling, improvements to the quality and comfort 
of the UK housing stock and improvements to urban air quality both 
through switching away from cars and widespread uptake of electric 
vehicles. 
• 
Innovation and option creation. Our Balanced Pathway assumes some 
deployment in the 2020s of technologies that are not yet fully mature, such 
as those for hydrogen production and use (e.g. turbines, boilers), carbon 
capture and storage (CCS), and greenhouse gas removals. This 
deployment will help to prove their performance and drive cost reductions 
through ‘learning by doing’, as has been so successful for offshore wind 
over the last decade, as well as creating greater optionality for potential 
subsequent deployment.  
• 
The ‘critical path’ to Net Zero by 2050. Some aspects of the transition require 
immediate and concerted action to make the necessary progress in time 
to contribute fully to Net Zero by 2050. These include planting trees and 
restoring peatlands, in order to allow these to sequester the necessary CO2 
by 2050, and deployment of decarbonised heating solutions for buildings to 
build a supply chain for full roll-out in later years. 
• 
Limiting reliance on greenhouse gas removals. While reaching Net Zero will 
require some level of engineered greenhouse gas removals (see Chapter 
2), these should not be relied upon to deliver unlimited offsets to remaining 
positive emissions. As well as being relatively immature technologically, 
there are limits to the quantity of sustainable bioenergy available to the UK, 
while direct air capture of CO2 will be energy-intensive. A more back-
ended path for emissions has less scope to correct should things go wrong, 
risking an over-reliance on removals and/or missing the Net Zero target. 
 
A slower path would fail to meet the criteria set out by the Climate Change Act. It 
would risk missing the 2050 target, fail to fulfil the UK’s commitments under the Paris 
Agreement and undermine UK leadership ahead of the UN climate talks at COP26, 
store up higher costs for later on and risk missing opportunities for economic growth 
and to drive down costs through deployment, and it would fail to encourage the 
actions to improve people’s health. 
 
We also consider in this chapter whether setting a legal target requiring a quicker 
path than that under the Balanced Pathway would be desirable. We conclude it 
would not, based on current understanding of technologies and behaviours. A 
quicker path would potentially go beyond feasible rates of deployment, given the 
need to engage people, and to develop supply chains, infrastructure and 
markets. The results of a faster path could also include widespread premature 
scrappage of assets such as boilers and vehicles, and/or carbon leakage to other 
countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
Our scenarios prioritise 
reducing existing emissions, in 
part to avoid reliance on 
excessive greenhouse gas 
removals to reach Net Zero. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
388 
A faster path may prove possible in future if technologies develop more quickly 
than we assume and/or people prove more willing to adopt new technologies 
and choose greener lifestyles. If it proves possible, then such a quicker path would 
be desirable given the difficulty in achieving the more ambitious end of the Paris 
Agreement objective (i.e. limiting global warming to 1.5°C). 
 
This chapter draws on evidence from earlier in the report, to explain why this path is 
the right one for emissions on the way to Net Zero. It is set out in four sections: 
1. Delivering on the Paris Agreement 
2. Supporting the recovery and maintaining momentum 
3. Making progress in every sector 
4. Why the recommendation does not require faster progress 
 
 
 
This is the right path for now, 
but it would be desirable to go 
further if that turns out to be 
feasible. 
389 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1. Delivering on the Paris Agreement 
The impact of CO2, and other long-lived greenhouse gases, on the global climate 
is primarily a result of their cumulative emissions (see Chapter 8). To meet the goals 
of the Paris Agreement the world must reach Net Zero CO2 (and ultimately long-
lived GHG) emissions and do so quickly enough to keep cumulative emissions 
sufficiently low up to that point. The contribution of any country’s territorial 
emissions to global temperature therefore reflects both the date at which it will 
reach Net Zero and the pathway it follows to get there. 
 
For example, the IPCC’s Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C concluded 
that in order to limit expected global temperature rise to 1.5°C the world would 
need to: 
• 
Reduce global CO2 emissions to Net Zero by around mid-century. 
• 
Reduce global CO2 emissions by around 45% from 2010 to 2030. 
• 
Reduce global non-CO2 emissions deeply. 
 
Recent developments in global climate ambition appear to be aligning to the 
global objective on Net Zero. Commitments to reach Net Zero by 2050 have been 
made by the EU, Japan, South Korea covering all greenhouse gases, and the 
incoming US administration has also committed to Net Zero by 2050. China has also 
recently made a commitment to reach carbon-neutrality by 2060. However, a 
large global ambition gap remains for 2030, with the EU the only one of the above 
proposals to be accompanied by a strengthened 2030 target (agreement on this 
target still needs to be reached across EU member states). 
 
Increasing ambition to 2030 must therefore be a key goal for the UK’s Presidency of 
the delayed UN climate talks (COP26). To support that goal the UK must itself 
adopt an ambitious interim goal, as implied by our recommended pathway for the 
Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
In Chapter 7 we compare our recommended Balanced Net Zero Pathway to the 
Paris Agreement and conclude that it is consistent, but should not be any slower: 
• 
Our proposed pathway is comparable to that being adopted by other 
climate leaders such as the EU, and could help the UK support necessary 
increases in global ambition for emissions reductions by 2030 as part of a 
group of ambitious countries and through its COP26 Presidency.  
• 
Our proposed pathway requires that the UK deploy low-carbon options 
around the same time as other climate leaders and slightly before their full 
global roll-out is needed in 1.5°C-consistent pathways. 
• 
While our proposed pathway sees UK per person GHG emissions aligned to 
those needed from the world as a whole in a 1.5°C consistent scenario over 
the Sixth Carbon Budget period, cumulative long-lived GHG emissions per 
person over the whole pathway would be at the very limit of the range 
consistent with a 1.5°C-aligned trajectory for the world as a whole. Top-
down allocations of effort according to equity principles are not formally 
used within the Paris Agreement, however several of these principles 
suggest that the UK (as a developed country with relatively high wealth 
and historical responsibly for climate change) should be aiming to go 
beyond even this level.  
 
The UK’s Net Zero commitment 
is now one of many globally, 
but more ambition and action 
is required for 2030. 
The recommended Sixth 
Carbon Budget should be 
considered as the minimum 
level of action required to 
meet the UK’s commitments 
under the Paris Agreement. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
390 
In Chapter 7 we set out how our proposed pathway can be considered a ‘fair and 
ambitious’ contribution towards the goals of the Paris Agreement. However, the 
structure of the Paris Agreement, scientific understanding linking every additional 
reduction in emissions with more avoided climate impacts, and the range of 
different possible framings of ‘fairness’ can provide valid reasons for even more 
ambitious emissions reduction in the UK. 
 
The binding constraint on the ambition in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway is the 
Committee’s judgement over what represents a feasible basis for an ambitious yet 
deliverable territorial emissions reduction pathway in the UK for the basis of setting 
legally-binding targets under the Climate Change Act. The credibility of targets set 
by the UK under the Climate Change Act and the Paris Agreement is an important 
part of our international signalling that the UK is serious about reducing emissions 
and will deliver on the targets that it sets. The UK should also be aiming to support 
the global effort to reduce emissions in other ways alongside its domestic emissions 
reductions (Chapter 7).   
 
Should more rapid emissions reductions in UK territorial emissions action turn out to 
be feasible (e.g. as in our Tailwinds scenario), as a result of positive developments 
on societal/behavioural changes and innovation, then ambition should increase, 
rather than allow this to be taken as an opportunity to ease off effort elsewhere. 
The Balanced Pathway should be seen as the minimum level of ambition for the 
UK’s pathway to Net Zero, with opportunities taken to go further than it where 
possible.  
 
Even if it were possible to delay effort while still achieving Net Zero by 2050, this 
would result in higher cumulative emissions. Higher cumulative emissions would 
lead to a worse climate outcome, and a more back-ended path would also 
undermine the UK’s ability to demonstrate international leadership: 
• 
Chapter 8 shows that a stylised pathway achieving Net Zero by 2050 but 
with limited action to reduce emissions over the 2020s would lead to a 
significantly higher contribution to global warming from UK territorial 
emissions over the 2020 – 2050 period. As well as leading to avoiding 
additional climate impacts, if replicated globally this would make it 
extremely difficult to keep warming to the 1.5°C end of the Paris Agreement 
long-term temperature goal.   
• 
The influence from UK action to global action is currently at its strongest as 
the UK hosts the next UN climate talks. These talks are aimed explicitly at 
increasing global effort to 2030. 
• 
The more challenging and costly parts of our recommended trajectory – 
decarbonising buildings and industry, and scaling up CO2 removals from 
the atmosphere – are also the areas where the UK has a particularly 
important leadership role in helping (alongside other climate leaders) to 
develop new global markets and technologies (see Chapter 7). Without 
action from the UK (alongside others) to develop and deploy this new 
wave of deeper decarbonisation options, the rapid and large-scale global 
deployment of these technologies that is needed to reduce global 
emissions in line with the Paris Agreement would not be credible.   
 
These factors provide a compelling argument that without pursuing ‘highest 
possible ambition’ across the entire pathway to Net Zero, as required by our 
recommended Sixth Carbon Budget, the UK would not be satisfying its obligations 
under the Paris Agreement.  
 
 
It is important that the 
recommended pathway be 
both ambitious and feasible. 
391 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
2. Supporting the recovery and maintaining momentum 
Much has changed since we published our Net Zero advice in May 2019. Net Zero 
by 2050 is now law in the UK. It has since been recognised as the ambition for 
around half of the world’s emissions (and rising). In the UK more and more 
businesses, people and local authorities are recognising the need for, and taking, 
climate action. This year the COVID-19 pandemic has created a vast public health 
crisis and has had a profound economic impact. 
 
The months ahead have huge significance. The steps that the world and the UK 
take to rebuild from the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic damage can 
accelerate the transition to low-carbon activities and improve our climate 
resilience. Short-term choices that lock in emissions or climate risks must be 
avoided. The window for increasing global climate ambition is now. 
 
This section consists of two subsections: 
a) Investing in a green recovery 
b) Building on existing momentum 
 
 
a) Investing in a green recovery  
 
The investment programme detailed in Chapter 5 of this report suggests that a 
large scale-up of low-carbon investment in the 2020s is ambitious, but achievable. 
It is financeable and can boost jobs and GDP, and it will lead to significant 
operating cost savings over the longer term. Similarly, there is strong evidence, set 
out in our 2020 Progress Report to Parliament and elsewhere, to support a range of 
low-carbon and climate adaptation 'green stimulus' measures.1 Many can be 
delivered quickly and have high multipliers, high numbers of jobs created, and 
boost spending in the UK.  
 
In our 2020 Progress Report we suggested that action by the Government in 
response to the pandemic must protect workers and businesses, restore 
confidence, stimulate spending and rebuild the economy. These goals can be 
strongly complementary to the UK's climate goals. We noted that green stimulus 
measures tend to have higher short-run economic multipliers that increase the 
effect on GDP of each investment and higher numbers of jobs created, as well as 
co-benefits for health and the natural environment.  
 
The investment programme in our Balanced Pathway fits the conditions for a 
successful green stimulus programme. It includes new additional investment in all 
emitting sectors, compared to a scenario with no further climate action. These 
investments align to areas that we’ve previously identified as being strong green 
stimulus measures, including: 
• 
Low-carbon building retrofits and buildings that are fit for the future. Our 
scenarios involve retrofit of 13 million homes by 2030. Importantly, this 
programme is geographically dispersed, reaching all areas of the UK, with 
the potential to create local jobs. Estimates outlined in Chapter 6 suggest 
potential for over 200,000 new jobs in this sector by 2030, equivalent to 
close to 1% of the UK workforce.  
 
Our Sixth Carbon Budget 
advice fits into a context of 
increasing climate ambition, 
and a green recovery from the 
pandemic. 
Our low-carbon investment 
programme contains strong 
‘green stimulus’ measures that 
can deliver decarbonisation 
while boosting economic 
growth. 
These investments can deliver 
a boost to jobs in buildings 
retrofit, low-carbon energy 
and natural capital. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
392 
• 
Natural capital investments in tree planting, peatland restoration and green 
infrastructure. Tree-planting increases to up to 30,000 ha annually by 2030, 
up from 13,000 hectares per year today, and twice the current level of 
restored peatland is restored by 2030.  
• 
Strengthening energy system networks and building low-carbon power. Our 
scenarios see a rapid increase in electrification, supported by resilient grid 
infrastructure and underpinned by an expansion of renewable electricity. 
• 
Infrastructure to make it easy for people to walk and cycle, leading to a 
shift in journeys away from private cars.  
• 
Moving towards a circular economy by ensuring that product design 
maximises re-use of materials and minimises waste over the product’s 
lifetime, leading to lower emissions in industry.  
 
In total, our Balanced Pathway entails increased annual low-carbon investment of 
around £50 billion by 2050. That scale-up in investment can support the recovery in 
the near term and draw on record-low interest rates. In the longer term, it brings 
pay-offs in terms of reduced operating costs (reaching £60 billion per year by 
2050), broader benefits to health and the environment, as well as reduced 
emissions. 
 
Our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget would send a clear signal that the UK is 
open for low-carbon investment. It could bring wider economic opportunities from 
capturing a share of the value from growing global markets for low-carbon goods 
and services. A slower transition that continues to invest in high-carbon assets 
could result in stranded assets or store up difficult transitions in future. 
 
b) Building on existing momentum 
 
Momentum in the UK is building towards the UK’s Net Zero objective. 80% of the 
public are concerned about climate change and 66% of people are now aware 
of ‘Net Zero’ specifically, up from around half of people earlier this year.2 Similarly, 
businesses and local authorities continue to produce ambitious pledges and 
deliver climate action, with businesses, including oil and gas companies, pledging 
their own Net Zero targets, and the majority of local authorities now having 
declared climate emergencies.  
 
Work is underway across all areas of Government, led by two new Cabinet 
Committees on climate. Taken together, this can be seen as a foundation for a 
comprehensive programme of climate action and investments in the 2020s:  
• 
Policy development is underway across all areas of Government, including 
on at least seven key decarbonisation strategies and plans across energy, 
transport, land use, manufacturing and buildings in anticipation of a 
comprehensive Net Zero Strategy from Government in 2021. The Policy 
Report that accompanies this advice offers detailed recommendations 
about what these strategies should include.  
• 
Businesses are at the forefront of the UK’s climate ambition, with 45% of FTSE 
100 businesses with Net Zero objectives. Increasingly, businesses are 
delivering on these ambitions, by procuring low-carbon electricity, 
switching to electric vehicles and decarbonising their own operations. The 
Confederation of British Industry (CBI) has called on the Government to 
capitalise on this through a ‘decade of delivery’ of climate action. 3 We set 
out how action by businesses can align to the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget 
pathway in a briefing note that accompanies this report (Box 9.1).4 
Businesses and local authorities 
are calling for Government to 
lead an ambitious programme 
of climate action in the 2020s. 
393 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Local and regional Governments are looking to lead the way on local 
delivery of Net Zero. The majority of local authorities have now set Net Zero 
targets, many of which are more ambitious than the UK’s national 
objective. Increasingly they are looking for support from Government, and 
a framework within which effective climate action can be coordinated. 
We are publishing a briefing note on how local and regional authorities can 
align their actions to the goals of the Sixth Carbon Budget alongside this 
report.5  
• 
People are increasingly aware of the need for climate action and are 
looking to have a say about how best to go about it. However a gap in 
understanding remains: while 66% of people are aware of the concept of 
Net Zero, only half are aware that their gas boiler produces emissions.6 The 
recent Climate Assembly, where a representative sample of the UK 
population deliberated around how best to achieve the UK’s Net Zero 
objective, emphasised the need for immediate action, as well as involving 
people in the decision-making process. Our accompanying Policy Report 
offers recommendations on a public engagement strategy for Net Zero. 
 
There are also potential economic opportunities from near-term action, as noted in 
Chapters 5 and 6.  
 
Box 9.1 
The role of business in delivering the Sixth Carbon Budget 
Corporate action is already driving significant change across the UK and internationally, 
and accelerating this action will enable the policy, technological, behavioural, and 
business model changes needed for a zero-carbon society. Yet many businesses within 
the UK are increasingly looking for information and a better understanding of the future 
context in which they will operate. 
 
Alongside our advice on the Sixth Carbon Budget we have developed a briefing note, 
published alongside this report, on how businesses in the UK can act to support the UK’s 
transition to Net Zero. This suggests the following principles to guide business ambition in 
the UK:  
 
• Do the basics well – measure, disclose, target, act, adjust. Companies should account 
for, and take action on, all emissions they are responsible for and be transparent 
about their objectives to reduce emissions, and how they plan to do it.  
• Adopt the highest possible ambition, acknowledging that some, particularly large, 
businesses may be able to achieve Net Zero earlier than the UK’s national objective. 
• Address all emissions, and go beyond. In particular companies should look at the 
emissions that occur in their supply chains (‘Scope 3’ emissions), and go beyond this. In 
particular we identify two areas to advance progress:  
– Companies can lead the transition to electric vehicles in the UK, and should 
switch their vehicle fleets to EVs over the 2020s 
– Companies should ensure corporate renewables procurement pays for new 
low-carbon electricity to be installed, rather than just purchasing existing 
renewables. 
• Ensure Climate Change is addressed at the highest levels of corporate leadership, 
including ensuring climate action is given board level and CEO responsibility.  
• Minimise offsets, phase them out, and ensure only permanent emissions removals 
remain, in line with our recommendations around how the UK should meet its national 
carbon budgets.  
 
Source: CCC (2020) The role of business in delivering the UK's Net Zero ambition 
 
 
People in the UK are 
increasingly aware of the 
concept of Net Zero, and 
want to be involved in 
decisions on how to get there.  
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
394 
3. Making progress in every sector in the 2020s 
The scenarios we set out in Chapters 2 and 3 demonstrate that action is needed 
across the economy for the entire period from now through to 2050. The scale-up 
over the coming decade arguably will be the most challenging part of the 
programme, and the most fundamental to delivering the Net Zero 2050 target. 
Delivering that scale-up will depend on effective policy being developed in the 
coming year and rolled out over the rest of this Parliamentary term (to 2024). This 
Government must be the one to shift the UK decisively onto the path towards 
ending our contribution to global warming. 
 
The pathways to Net Zero laid out in this report broadly involve two distinct phases 
for UK climate policy, with the next decade being vital: 
• 
The 2020s: scale-up. The UK must build supply chains and new markets for 
low-carbon consumer offerings (e.g. electric cars and heat pumps) so that 
these can scale from being niche offerings to dominate the market and 
fully push out high-carbon alternatives by 2030 or soon after. Alongside, we 
must develop and scale up new options for industrial decarbonisation such 
as carbon capture and storage (CCS), low-carbon hydrogen and 
engineered emissions removals. Tree planting rates must increase from 
13,000 hectares per year today to 25,000 hectares per year by 2025 and 
perhaps higher by 2030. 
• 
From the early 2030s to 2050: roll-out. Having scaled up the required 
markets, these will then take around 15 years to flow through the stock of 
vehicles and houses. Instruments driving implementation in industry and 
land use should be well developed and continue to drive roll-out at similar 
rates. But policy will be less about aiming to scale up markets, instead 
focusing on continuing achieved rates of roll-out, tackling emerging barriers 
and systems challenges and ensuring fairness across society. 
 
Our scenarios have been developed with a particular attention to the pace at 
which change is feasible, allowing time for supply chains to scale up and for 
consumer choices to change. They move in step with the natural turnover of long-
lived assets like vehicles and boilers, avoiding increases in embedded emissions or 
emissions leakage. 
 
This section considers three particular aspects of our analysis that have led to  
the pace of emissions reduction in the Balanced Net Zero Pathway: 
a) Taking low-cost opportunities and realising co-benefits 
b) The need for progress by 2030 to reach Net Zero by 2050 
c) Learning-by-doing, demonstrations and pathfinders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progress across every sector in 
the 2020s can ensure the 
conditions are set for a mass 
rollout of low-carbon 
technologies over the 2030s.  
395 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
a) Taking low-cost opportunities and realising co-benefits 
 
There are opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that would be worth 
taking, even ignoring the climate benefits, because they save costs or have 
substantial co-benefits (e.g. to health). These opportunities might not have been 
taken previously, due to barriers to uptake, a lack of joined-up policy or the cost 
reductions only having occurred recently: 
• 
Barriers. There remains considerable potential for reducing demand for 
energy and materials, much of which would also be cost-saving or have 
small net costs, but where barriers to date have stopped some of these 
opportunities being taken up: 
– Improvements to home energy efficiency have stalled in the last eight 
years, despite remaining cost-effective potential, due to changes to 
policy that have failed to address barriers properly, including 
information and the cost of finance. 
– There are considerable opportunities to improve the resource 
efficiency of our economy, thereby reducing the need for carbon-
intensive manufacturing, that are currently not being taken, even 
though they would reduce costs to consumers. These include 
designing products to last for longer and to be suitable for repair and 
re-engineering, increasing sharing of vehicles and appliances, and 
reducing waste.  
• 
Co-benefits. A range of measures that reduce emissions also bring co-
benefits to society, most notably for people’s health. Many of these have 
small or negative financial costs, and would make sense to pursue even if 
considering either climate action or health in isolation. Measures that would 
bring overall net benefits to society when considering these wider benefits, 
include increases in walking and cycling, better diets, improving home 
insulation and measures that improve air quality. Chapter 5 contains a 
summary of the main co-impacts of our scenarios. 
• 
Recent reductions in costs, especially of renewable electricity generation 
and batteries over the last decade, mean that zero-emissions technologies 
are set to become cheaper than the high-carbon alternatives: 
– Renewables. Recent cost reductions for renewable electricity 
generation have enabled it to become competitive with new fossil 
power plants for bulk electricity generation. The auction results of 
£39/MWh for offshore wind* have been particularly important for the 
UK, because of the large potential for UK deployment and the positive 
correlation with energy demand in the UK. Given the strategic 
importance of electrification across the whole economy, recent 
Government announcements on allowing onshore wind and solar to 
compete in auctions and for a target of 40 GW offshore wind 
deployment by 2030 are very welcome. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The auction results are quoted as standard in 2012 prices. £39/MWh in 2012 prices equates to £45/MWh in 2019 prices. 
Many of the actions in our 
scenarios are cost-effective, 
and have substantial co-
benefits, even if the climate 
benefits are ignored. 
A rollout of cheap low-carbon 
power and electric vehicles 
builds on global trends for 
these technologies. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
396 
– Electric vehicles. Similarly, the costs of batteries, and therefore of 
electric vehicles, have fallen dramatically over the past decade. This is 
likely to lead to electric vehicles being competitive with those of petrol 
and diesel vehicles in terms of upfront costs by 2030 and, given large 
savings in running costs, earlier on a whole-life basis (Figure 9.1). A 
phase-out of petrol and diesel vehicles by 2030 will save money, 
improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
Pursuing this set of measures is a win-win to improve the UK’s wellbeing and 
economic health, while also helping to meet the climate targets. While difficult to 
forecast accurately, action in the 2020s to reduce emissions will also potentially 
create a range of economic opportunities (see Chapter 5). 
 
Figure 9.1 Impacts of alternative phase-out dates 
for new petrol and diesel cars and vans 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
Notes: Comparison between the annual cost to society (cost of vehicles, infrastructure, fuel and maintenance) of 
the EV transition under three phase-out dates for new petrol and diesel car and van sales (including PHEVs): i) 2030; 
ii) 2032 (as in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway); and iii) 2035. 
 
 
 
 
397 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) The need for progress by 2030 to reach Net Zero by 2050 
 
The dynamics of decarbonisation vary both across and within sectors. There are 
some measures to reduce emissions for which the timing is relatively flexible 
between now and 2050, where there are relevant arguments to be made over 
their timing (as set out in other sections of this Chapter). 
 
In other areas, however, there is no real flexibility on timing – immediate and 
concerted action is required to get on track to making a full contribution to 
achieving Net Zero by 2050. This lack of flexibility can be for a range of reasons, 
including the need to scale up supply chains (and associated jobs – see Chapter 
6), the need for long-term certainty in order for businesses to transition to new 
business models, as well as ensuring low-cost financing of the investments in our 
scenarios (see Chapter 5) and avoiding boom-bust cycles for industry: 
• 
Stock turnover. Typical asset lifetimes are around 15-20 years, for example 
for cars and boilers. Investment should therefore switch entirely from high-
carbon to low-carbon assets by early in the 2030s, apart from such 
exceptions that have a clear route to cost-effective retrofitting (e.g. 
hydrogen-ready boilers in an area designated for hydrogen roll-out). Any 
later switch-over date would imply early capital scrappage, which could 
be costly, would undermine investment cases, would increase embedded 
emissions* and would make a just transition more difficult to achieve as it 
would imply stop-go replacement profiles. 
• 
Lead-times. Reaching a point at which all new investment is in assets that 
are compatible with Net Zero cannot happen overnight. Lead-times from 
policy to investment and impact, together with the need to scale up 
markets, supply chains and supporting infrastructure, as well as public 
acceptance of new solutions, means most policies must be at least 
outlined in the coming year and firmed up this Parliamentary term (by 2024 
or earlier). That should be a realistic goal given that policy is under active 
development in most of the required areas. 
  
Importantly the scale-up must include all areas of decarbonisation, including 
solutions to reduce emissions today, and technologies that will be required to 
remove emissions from the atmosphere in the future.  
 
We have considered the dynamics of emissions reduction across all areas of the 
economy, and identified areas where these constraints make immediate and 
concerted action necessary to get on track to Net Zero. A failure to get on with 
action in the buildings and land use sectors could lead to unnecessary scrappage 
and disruption and/or an over-reliance on engineered greenhouse gas removals: 
• 
Buildings. There is minimal room for delay if UK buildings are to reach zero 
emissions by 2050, given the need to scale up low-carbon solutions in the 
2020s in order to phase out installation of fossil fuel heating installations in 
the early 2030s. Delays to this timeline would imply costs and disruption of 
scrappage in the 2040s, and could risk failing to reach Net Zero by 2050:  
– A delayed path for rolling out low-carbon heating would require 
accelerated deployment in the 2040s, potentially going well beyond 
the natural replacement rate of heating appliances. This would imply 
much more early scrappage of fossil fuel boilers in the 2040s, 
increasing costs and disruption for households.  
 
 
* I.e. the emissions involved in the production and end-of-life disposal of assets like vehicles and boilers. 
The pace of our scenarios 
takes into account the need 
to build up supply chains, and 
the need to ensure low-
carbon options are available 
at scale by 2030. 
Progress in all sectors is 
required by 2030. A failure to 
make progress in the 2020s 
would build up risks further 
down the line. 
A failure to make progress in 
buildings could leave 
significant emissions arising 
from the UK’s housing stock by 
2050.  
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
398 
Starting the transition as soon as possible also provides the opportunity 
to drive down costs through steady deployment. 
– A more back-ended path including widespread scrappage would 
also need a large temporary increase in supply-chain capacity (e.g. 
to deliver well over 2 million installations annually in the 2040s) to 
deliver the low-carbon solutions in a condensed timeframe. This 
expanded supply chain would then be underutilised post-2050. 
– Failure to make timely progress also risks that the delay cannot be 
compensated for by extra deployment in the 2040s. A five-year delay 
in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway for buildings would lead to 9 
MtCO2e extra in 2050, while a ten-year delay would imply 29 Mt (Figure 
9.2). These would respectively imply 15% and 48% increases in required 
deployment of engineered greenhouse gas removals by 2050. 
 
Figure 9.2 Potential impact of delays to emissions 
reductions in the buildings sector 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A delay to the required 
programme of buildings retrofit 
would put the Net Zero target 
at risk.  
399 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Land use. For land-related measures, such as afforestation and peatland 
restoration, there are physical limits to how quickly delays can be caught 
up later on. Natural rates of growth and carbon sequestration cannot 
simply be accelerated. Costs for many measures are low, and they are 
labour-intensive, providing excellent opportunities to support the recovery 
in the 2020s. A five-year delay in our Balanced Net Zero Pathway for land 
use would lead to 6 MtCO2e extra in 2050, while a ten-year delay would 
imply an increase of 13 MtCO2e (Figure 9.3). These would imply 10% and 
22% increases in required deployment of engineered greenhouse gas 
removals, and would substantially increase costs relative to achieving land-
based sequestration.  
 
Figure 9.3 Potential impact of delays to emissions 
reductions in the land use sector 
 
 
Source: CCC analysis. 
 
• 
Net Zero targets around the world imply that the future of manufacturing 
and construction must be low-carbon. Our scenarios reflect a transition to 
low-carbon manufacturing and construction over the 2020s and 2030s, in 
line with a global transition for this sector. This is reinforced by real-world 
trends. For example, some early projects internationally are already 
demonstrating that hydrogen-based steel production and low-carbon 
cement is possible, and the European cement sector is aiming for Net Zero 
emissions by 2050. Given the increased costs of these processes, 
mechanisms will need to be developed in order to ensure a level playing 
field for low-carbon and higher-carbon processes. Our scenarios reflect an 
evolution of these mechanisms over the 2020s, towards a world where low-
carbon manufacturing scales up globally by the 2030s.  
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
400 
A back-ended path for emissions reduction has less scope to be corrected should 
things go wrong, risking an over-reliance on removals and/or missing the Net Zero 
target. 
 
While the strategy for Net Zero should seek to develop and deploy engineered 
greenhouse gas removal options, it should not over-rely on their deployment: 
• 
As well as being relatively immature technologically, there are limits to 
deployment of engineered removals both in terms of the finite quantity of 
sustainable bioenergy available to the UK and the energy requirements of 
direct air capture of CO2 – in the near term low-carbon energy supply 
should be prioritised for uses that will contribute more efficiently to 
decarbonisation.  
• 
Costs for engineered removals are also likely to be towards the high end of 
the range for opportunities to reduce emissions, meaning that a greater 
reliance on them is likely to increase costs.  
• 
Action to develop these technologies, through large-scale demonstration, 
can give confidence in the ability to scale up these technologies further in 
order to meet Net Zero. Reaching 2030 without making progress in these 
areas is likely to increase risk and reduce options for the remainder of the 
transition. 
• 
The UK Climate Assembly did not favour use of engineered removals. While 
some may be inevitable, they should be a last resort that is used only to 
offset other emissions that cannot be reduced. 
 
Therefore, while reaching Net Zero will require some level of engineered 
greenhouse removals (see Chapter 2), these should not be relied upon to deliver 
unlimited offsets to remaining positive emissions. 
 
c) Learning by doing, demonstrations and pathfinders 
 
Innovation theory and historical experience suggests that the limited amount of 
time available to achieve Net Zero means that although new technologies will 
arise, not all potential innovations will be able to make a significant difference by 
2050 (Box 9.2). Innovation is about much more than just technology, extending to 
business models, institutions, social change and policy development. Furthermore, 
although early-stage research and development is important in establishing the 
viability of a technology, without demonstration and deployment technologies 
cannot be proven at scale and the costs of technologies are less likely to fall.  
 
Our pathways reflect this, scaling up currently known technologies and options to 
reduce emissions over the course of the 2020s, so that by the 2030s mass uptake of 
low-carbon technologies, fuels and behaviours is possible, across all sectors of the 
economy. Our scenarios envisage that a programme of demonstrations, 
pathfinders and ‘learning-by-doing’ allows technologies to be developed, 
commercialised and deployed on realistic timescales, taking into account the 
current status and future potential of technologies. However, we do not assume 
innovation produces unspecified breakthroughs to reduce emissions. If innovation 
occurs at a faster pace than that envisaged in our scenarios, then the UK’s climate 
objectives could be achieved more easily, or more quickly. We also include 
innovation in business models, and behaviour change, resulting in lower emissions.  
Policy frameworks will therefore need to incentivise mass deployment of 
established low-carbon technologies, while driving deployment of some less-
mature solutions, even if these have higher costs than other low-carbon 
technologies in the near term.  
 
A back-ended pathway to 
achieving Net Zero builds in 
risks, including a potential 
overreliance on engineered 
emissions removals.  
Our scenarios do not assume 
that innovation produces 
unspecified breakthroughs to 
reduce emissions.  
Although new technologies 
will arise, not all potential 
innovations will be able to 
make a significant difference 
by 2050. 
401 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Box 9.2 
Energy innovation theory & historical experience 
Experience suggests that energy technologies take multiple decades to reach 
commercial scale.7 For example, solar panels were invented in the 1950s, but were not 
deployed at scale until the 2000s. Similarly, commercialisation of the modern wind turbine 
is estimated to have taken 40 years.8  
 
In many cases, the biggest driver of cost reductions and technological improvement will 
be through deployment at scale. This has been apparent in the last decade for offshore 
wind in the UK where reduced technology costs and reduced cost of capital now mean 
that generation from offshore wind is the same cost as from a new gas-fired power plant 
(without a carbon price), and the efficiency of the technology has improved.  
 
This trend has also been apparent internationally, where mass manufacture and 
deployment of solar PV panels, onshore wind turbines and batteries have reduced costs, 
while improving efficiencies. Innovation theory suggests that modular technologies such 
as solar panels, wind turbines and batteries continue to reduce in costs in line with 
continued deployment achieved through scale and replication of manufacturing 
processes (a concept known as ‘learning rates’).*9  
 
However, this isn’t always the case. For example, no similar trend has been established for 
the historical deployment of nuclear power stations, which are larger, and therefore less 
easy to replicate.10 Though some cost reductions have occurred in South Korea,11 and 
could be available through improved construction processes and replicable designs in 
the UK,12 and potentially through Small Modular nuclear Reactors (SMRs).13  
 
Global trends are likely to dictate how the scale of deployment affects the cost and 
efficiencies of technologies such as renewables, batteries and electrolysers, though 
multiple studies have highlighted areas where the UK can play a more active role in 
innovation, and where technology innovation can lead to export opportunities for the 
UK.14 This includes CCS, low-carbon hydrogen, offshore wind, novel battery technologies, 
nuclear power, and smart technology for electricity systems. Business model innovation 
will also be important, influenced by policy, and the global role of the UK’s financial 
sector can also play a role in developing, and reducing the costs of low -carbon 
technologies.  
 
• Offshore wind. The UK has been a global leader in offshore wind and will continue to 
play a strong role, supporting a rapidly growing global market for the technology.  
• Carbon Capture and Storage is a critical global technology, and is likely to play a 
strong role in the UK. Demonstration in the UK can prove the viability of high capture 
rates for this technology. Similarly, UK Government action can deliver cost savings in 
the deployment of CO2 transport and storage networks.  
• Low-carbon hydrogen. The UK has a strong research base in hydrogen fuel cells, and 
UK companies are active in the development of electrolyser technologies. 
Additionally, the UK could be a key country in demonstrating advanced methane 
reformation with CCUS.  
• The UK is pioneering research into future battery technologies.  
• The UK is also one of a few global leaders in nuclear power,15 and is one of just a few 
countries considering deploying Generation III nuclear reactors and SMRs.  
• Smart technology such as digital optimisation, design and artificial intelligence to 
optimise the electricity system for integrating renewables into the grid is an area where 
the UK already has prowess, and will be increasingly important in a renewables-centric 
world. 
 
 
*   For example, the cost of solar panels has fallen by around 25% with each doubling of installed capacity for the 
technology, since 1980. See Fraunhofer (2020) Photovoltaics report 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
402 
• Low-carbon heat. Our scenarios suggest a transition to electrification in buildings 
heating could make the UK one of the largest markets for air-to-water heat pumps. 
Cost reductions could be available through increased deployment of this technology. 
• Aeronautics, including emerging research into electric and hydrogen aircraft 
propulsion.16 
• Business models, policy development and financial innovation are also important. For 
example the UK was an early adopter of competitive auctions for renewable 
electricity, which is increasingly the model being used around the world.* Similarly, the 
UK’s Climate Change Act has been used as a model for other countries around the 
world.17 The UK is also recognised as a leader in green and sustainable finance and 
has considerable potential to shape global financial frameworks towards a transition 
to Net Zero.18  
Source: See sources 4-15 in Endnotes.  
 
i) The role of innovation in achieving Net Zero 
 
Particularly in areas where the UK has a key role to play in developing low-carbon 
technologies and business models, acting now both creates viable pathways to 
reach Net Zero and delivers opportunities for cost saving along the way. 
Conversely, delayed action risks higher costs on the pathway to Net Zero, and a 
loss of potential export opportunities for certain technologies.  
 
Established technologies 
 
In some sectors of the economy, near-full decarbonisation can be achieved with 
the set of technologies that is already established (e.g. power generation, 
buildings, light-duty vehicles), recognising that global trends continue to improve 
the efficiency and reduce the cost of these technologies and broaden the range 
of low-cost options. Here, the focus of policy should be on creating frameworks 
that drive deployment at scale in the UK, building on global trends, and allowing 
markets to deliver with low cost of capital, while having the flexibility to enable 
innovative solutions to contribute as they become available.  
 
Establishing clear goals for technology uptake can be valuable in driving 
investment into a sector and reducing the cost of capital. We note the value of 
conditional goals informally available to offshore wind, which promised a large 
future market for the technology contingent on continued cost reductions, 
supported through the competitive allocation of long-term contracts through the 
Contracts for Difference (CfD) scheme.  
 
In some areas, although the technologies exist to reduce emissions to very low 
levels, estimated costs of doing so are relatively high (e.g. for heating buildings, 
emissions removals). Policy frameworks will therefore need to be designed in a way 
that not only drives the necessary decarbonisation, but also in a way that gives the 
best chance of realising and benefiting from cost reductions, and of sharing the 
costs and risks of technology deployment in a fair way.  
 
Where people are adversely affected through higher costs being passed through, 
targeted Government support may be required (see Chapter 6).  
 
 
 
*   A consultancy report, published alongside our advice, notes the opportunities for leading countries such as the UK to 
develop zero carbon power market designs through relevant policies (e.g. contracts for zero emission sources, 
carbon pricing, or policies that address variable renewables and grid balancing) that can then be replicated 
elsewhere. See Vivid Economics (2020) Unpacking leadership-driven global scenarios towards the Paris Agreement. 
Our scenarios involve mass 
rollout of established low-
carbon technologies, 
complemented by progress 
and learning in more 
emerging technologies and 
behaviours.  
Policy frameworks will 
therefore need to be designed 
in a way that gives the best 
chance of realising and 
benefiting from cost 
reductions 
403 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Where there is uncertainty around the costs or scale of competing low-carbon 
options a portfolio of options should be pursued. For example, floating offshore 
wind turbines are likely to play a role alongside fixed bottom turbines in the future; 
small modular reactors could play a role alongside larger nuclear reactors; blue 
(methane-based) and green (electrolytic) hydrogen can both play a role; low-
carbon hydrogen can provide an alternative to electrification for heavy goods 
vehicles and potentially for heating buildings; BECCS and DACCS can both be 
used for emissions removals at scale.19 Developing these options can give more 
certainty over future scale, and lower costs, of low-carbon options as a group as 
well as broadening the consumer proposition and routes to optimising across the 
energy system.  
 
Emerging technologies and behaviours 
 
Our scenarios also include a range of areas in which solutions have been 
proposed, but innovation will be required to go beyond the reach of established 
technologies or methods, such as in hydrogen, heavy goods vehicles, and carbon 
capture and storage. These also require a policy framework that: enables their 
value to be realised (recognising that initially some solutions will not be cost-
competitive), provides supporting infrastructure, promotes sharing of knowledge to 
underpin commercial development and drives learning-by-doing. 
 
Demonstrations, pilots and pathfinder projects will be required to establish some of 
the low-carbon technologies, business models and behaviours in our scenarios, 
from the early 2020s: 
• 
Pathfinder cities can be funded to demonstrate the viability of low-carbon 
heat pumps at scale and (if possible) hydrogen at scale, prior to a wider 
roll-out. They should also be used to develop a better understanding of 
whole systems interactions across low-carbon heat, electricity and transport 
and how infrastructure investment can be coordinated efficiently. 
• 
Demonstrating low-carbon hydrogen at scale can prove the viability of 
low-carbon hydrogen production via methane reformation with CCS, and 
the viability of hydrogen as a consumer offering in homes and HGVs.  
• 
HGV trials across the three decarbonisation options – battery vehicles, 
hydrogen fuel cells and catenaries – can be used to demonstrate the most 
viable option, or combination of options, for the UK.  
• 
Improving flexibility in the energy system by rolling out mandatory half-
hourly settlement for energy billing, and supporting cost-reflective charging 
and smart tariffs so as to provide an accurate source of information at 
household level which truly reflects how the electricity system is 
decarbonising and the savings which are accessible through load-shifting. 
This can be part of a wider strategy to encourage and integrate the use of 
data and digitalisation into the UK’s decarbonisation efforts.  
• 
Direct Air Carbon Capture and Storage (DACCS) could be a future solution 
for removing carbon from the atmosphere, but only a handful of 
demonstration projects exist, and future costs are highly uncertain. 
Demonstration of the technology in the UK during the 2020s can increase 
confidence over the viability and potential of the technology in a UK 
context, as well as globally. 
• 
Initial CCS demonstration projects, deployed at sufficient scale, can 
demonstrate the high capture rates and efficiencies considered to be 
available to the technology in engineering studies.  
Learning-by-doing is a key 
theme of our scenarios, as 
evidence shows that costs fall 
and technologies improve 
through increased 
deployment. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
404 
• 
The need to deploy consumer technologies such as heat pumps and 
electric vehicles at scale will require business models to be tested and 
trialled before being rolled out at scale.  
• 
Delivering the high levels of societal behaviour change in our scenarios, 
such as diet change, will require a more detailed understanding of how 
policy can influence these changes.  
 
Moving beyond technology demonstration and towards mass deployment will 
require new processes, viable business models and behaviours, in order to reduce 
the need for travel, to promote re-use of materials, reduce consumption of animal 
protein, and increase the uptake of low-carbon technologies.  
 
Where appropriate, Government should play an active role in supporting 
technology development towards commercialisation, while ensuring a move 
towards technology neutrality.  
 
Box 9.3 
Digitalisation and its role in achieving Net Zero 
Digital technology is seen as an important enabler of the UK’s Net Zero transition. 
Alongside the low-carbon transformation of our energy, materials and land, the coming 
30 years are expected to see fundamental changes in the way we collect, process and 
use data.  
 
Reflecting this, a number of studies have been published this year, including by the Royal 
Society, ESC and Imperial College, noting the role that digitalisation can play in 
decarbonisation. To complement this, the CCC and techUK hosted a roundtable of 
industry and academic stakeholders in June 2020 to discuss the role of digital 
technologies in reaching Net Zero. The following consensus viewpoints arose: 
 
• Digitalisation will be fundamental to the operation of a Net Zero economy, 
underpinning the production and use of energy across increasingly interconnected 
sectors, particularly with the widespread electrification of vehicles, buildings and 
industry in the UK. 
• Energy services and pricing tariffs should become increasing flexible and dynamic, 
supporting prosumers (e.g. onsite renewables, batteries, vehicle-to-grid), home and 
local grid management, reducing the need for large amounts of grid back-up. 
• Digitalisation will help reduce demands for energy, materials, food and water. Artificial 
intelligence, machine learning, digital twins and the Internet of Things will lead to 
predictive analysis, efficiencies and waste reductions in manufacturing, farming, 
buildings and transport networks. Additionally, transport demands could be 
significantly reduced through video-conferencing and augmented reality. 
• Digital tech and supercomputing will allow better forecasting, monitoring and 
modelling of emissions (e.g. the potential for assets to report Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 
in real-time, or land carbon stocks), and will shorten innovation cycles to bring new 
energy technologies to market faster. 
However, several emerging risks were identified as needing to be mitigated. These are 
likely to require action from both the technology industry and Government:  
 
• Concerns regarding data privacy, consumer protection and cyber-security need to 
be addressed early at the system design stage. Given the convergence of new 
energy and digital technologies, continued public trust and acceptance of change 
will be vital to avoid backlash against decarbonisation. 
• Data standards and models for data collection & sharing need further development 
(building on the Modernising Energy Data programme), working across industry, 
Government departments and regulators. Data should be ‘Presumed Open’ in order 
to improve transparency, and open-source tools promoted. 
405 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• Interoperability needs to be embedded, to ensure continued flexibility and consumer 
choice as markets evolve – lessons can be learnt from the UK’s smart meter roll-out. 
• Roll-out of infrastructure such as fibre-optic broadband, 5G and satellite networks are 
critical enablers to improved connectivity. Acceptable levels of system resilience and 
service reliability need to be established and communicated to consumers, 
particularly if more energy systems rely on a common piece of connectivity 
infrastructure. 
• IT infrastructure needs to be run on low-carbon electricity and maximise heat recovery 
opportunities. Continued focus is required on eco-design, repairs/upgrades, end-of-life 
criteria and procurement to drive down IT waste. Data centre energy efficiency needs 
to keep improving, even as data becomes more localised for latency and data 
residency reasons. 
• New, flexible regulatory vehicles that are sufficiently granular and responsive also 
need to be designed to keep pace with technology changes. Regulatory sandboxes 
need to be deepened and made systematic. Achieving Net Zero should be a 
mandate for each regulator.  
Overall, the UK’s digital innovation system, including the Grand Challenges, needs to be 
aligned to the challenges of Net Zero, focusing on outcomes rather than prescribing 
approaches. Additionally, the National Data Strategy has to consider the data 
requirements of a transition to Net Zero.  
Source: The Royal Society (2020) Digital technology and the planet: harnessing computing to achieve net zero; 
Energy Systems Catapult (2020) Digitalisation for Net Zero; Imperial College London (2020) Digitalisation of Energy 
 
ii) Innovation in our scenarios 
 
Our advice on the Sixth Carbon Budget draws from a range of scenarios, which 
cover a broad scope of ambition on the availability of innovative low-carbon 
technologies, the cost of technologies, the rapid uptake of technologies and 
behaviour change. Three of our scenarios - Widespread Innovation, Tailwinds and 
Widespread Engagement - are deliberately more optimistic around the available 
opportunities for social change and/or technology development (Table 9.1), 
whereas the Balanced Net Zero Pathway and Headwinds are more conservative in 
their approach.  
 
Most technologies in our scenarios are deployable at scale today, and in some 
cases (such as renewables, and electric vehicles) are already cheaper, or are 
expected to be cheaper than the high-carbon alternative. Other technologies, 
such as carbon capture and storage, are considered proven technologies, but 
given their importance in our scenarios require early demonstration to ensure they 
can operate at high efficiencies and CO2 capture rates. In all cases policy should 
establish the conditions for mass market deployment and, support innovation 
towards a goal of continued cost reduction.  
 
Our scenarios also consider innovation in business models and behaviour, in order 
to increase the uptake of low-carbon technologies. 
• 
Diet change involving reduced meat and dairy consumption of up to 50% 
compared today, replaced by plant-based foods, or lab grown meat.  
• 
Heat as a service business models, to overcome barriers, unlock flexibility 
benefits and reduce costs of installing and using low-carbon heating 
technologies. 
• 
Moving towards a circular economy by ensuring that product design 
maximises re-use of materials and minimises waste over the products 
lifetime can reduce emissions in UK manufacturing.  
 
Our scenarios go further than 
our 2019 Net Zero advice by 
including more rapid 
technology improvements, as 
well as more novel 
technologies and business 
models.  
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
406 
• 
Autonomous vehicles could extend road travel to those previously unable 
to travel by car, including people who currently do not hold a driver’s 
licence. More efficient driving and dynamic routing could effectively 
increase road capacity, freeing up road space for more cars, which could 
increase emissions and/or energy requirements for vehicles.  
• 
Digitalisation plays a role, including by avoiding the need to travel for work, 
due to improved video-conferencing facilities and working from home.  
 
Delivering the scenarios will also require innovations in policymaking and 
institutions. We explore some of these challenges, as well as innovation policy, in 
our accompanying Policy report. 
 
Our scenarios are intended to be explorative, not prescriptive. Some technologies 
play no, or limited, roles in our scenarios but may still have a role. Further research 
may still be valuable. Our scenarios contain a range of emerging technologies, 
such as DACCS and electric and hybrid aircraft, but given the time taken for 
commercialisation, we assume that their ultimate role is limited (Table 9.1). 
 
In many cases their deployment could act as a substitute for alternative 
technologies while delivering comparable emissions pathways (e.g. where 
emissions already reach zero in our scenarios), in others they may be able to 
reduce emissions further and/or faster (e.g. DACCS, low-carbon aviation 
technologies, or breakthrough feed additives to cut emissions from livestock). 
 
Should innovation make faster emissions reductions achievable they should be 
pursued given the difficulty in reaching the stretching end of the ambition in the 
Paris Agreement (i.e. limiting global warming to 1.5°C). The prospect of potential 
breakthroughs should not be used as an excuse to delay actions that are available 
now and necessary to reduce other sources of emissions, such as from buildings, 
industry and transport. 
 
Table 9.1 
Summary of key innovations in the Widespread Innovation and Widespread Engagement scenarios 
Sector 
Key assumptions for further innovations 
 Uncertainties & scope to go further 
Surface 
transport 
• Battery costs fall to £42/kWh by 2030.  
• 3-4% of car journeys are switched to e-bikes 
in 2030, rising to 7-9% by 2050.  
• Autonomous vehicles included in the 
Widespread Innovation scenario, leading to 
an increase in demand for car travel by 
2050.  
• Optimal decarbonisation technology for HGVs 
is unclear at present. Different options are 
explored in our scenarios.  
• Impact of autonomous vehicles is highly 
uncertain and could increase or decrease 
travel demand.  
Electricity 
generation 
• Renewables costs reach £23/MWh by 2050 in 
the Widespread Innovation scenario 
(£20/MWh in 2012 prices)  
• Renewables contribute up to 90% of 
electricity generation  
• Renewables already in development below this 
cost around the world, but typically solar power 
with higher irradiation than in the UK  
• Requires sufficient flexibility (e.g. from demand, 
hydrogen production, storage, low-
carbon dispatchable generation) to 
manage system  
Buildings 
• Air-to-water heat pump costs reach around 
£3,850 for an average domestic unit by 2050 
and a combined seasonal performance 
factor** of 3.73 at 45 degrees flow 
temperature.  
• Closure of the gap between estimated and 
actual performance 
• While not quantified, the EINAs identify scope 
for cost reduction from innovations such as 
more integrated systems, modularisation, 
innovative new compressors and expanders, 
and smart controls.  
 
 
407 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 6% reduction in heat demand achieved 
through multizone control of heating  
• The scale of the performance gap is highly 
uncertain. Higher performance of measures 
is possible, and has been demonstrated via 
whole-house retrofit approaches such 
as Energiesprong.  
• Our assumptions on heat demand reduction 
from multizone control remain conservative. A 
range of sources indicate higher savings are 
possible, including up to 12% for the UK.  
Manufacturing 
& Construction 
• Hydrogen used for direct reduction of iron in 
steelmaking process 
• Supply chains scale up so that by 2032, 
enough supply chain capacity exists to install 
fuel switching or CCS in, on average, 12% of 
each industrial subsector per year 
• Use of green hydrogen from dedicated 
renewables, without a grid connection. 
• Levels of energy and resource efficiency 
outside of the larger sectors are likely to be 
conservative because of very sparse evidence. 
• Supply chain growth remains uncertain despite 
substantial stakeholder consultation. 
• Competition between electrification, green 
hydrogen and blue hydrogen remains 
uncertain. 
Fuel supply 
• Electrolyser costs reach £350/kW by 2040  
• CCS capture rates of 90-95%, 99% after 2040 
in Widespread Innovation in some 
subsectors. 
• Some estimates suggest £115/kW by 2030 could 
be achievable20  
• Uncertainties around delivering high capture 
rates. Studies suggest capture rates above 95% 
achievable for most technologies*  
Aviation 
• Hybrid electric planes make up 9% of plane-
km by 2050  
• Aircraft efficiency increases 2% a year  
• Could have larger role for synthetic jet fuel from 
Direct Air Capture, if costs low enough and 
airlines favour this instead of Direct Air Capture 
+ CCS. Hydrogen planes could also play a role. 
• Sector size and recovery post-COVID-19 is very 
uncertain, plus video-conferencing and digital 
technology impacts  
Shipping 
• Ammonia cost reaches £64/MWh by 2040  
• Engine retrofits all occur in the 2030s  
• Ammonia currently favoured, but hydrogen, 
methanol (from Direct Air Capture) or 
electricity could compete in certain ship types  
Waste 
• A third of waste could be prevented, and 
recycling rates could reach 80%  
• All energy from waste plants install CCS by 
2050  
• Optimal wastewater treatment options after 
2030 are unclear, especially in 
industrial wastewater  
• Energy from waste plants could start installing 
CCS earlier than the 2040s  
Agriculture 
and land use 
• 50% reduction in all meat and 
dairy consumption, replaced by plant-based 
foods and some meat with lab grown meat  
• Lab-grown meat currently unavailable. Future 
uptake depends on continuing R&D to reduce 
production costs and public acceptability.  
• Feed additives could reduce methane 
emissions from livestock. Crop breakthroughs 
could reduce N2O.  
Greenhouse 
gas removals 
• BECCS used for power, hydrogen and jet 
fuel production, plus industrial heat  
• DACCS costs reach £120/tCO2 by 2050 
• More uncertain options not considered 
(e.g. biochar, enhanced weathering)  
• Some DACCS estimates 
suggest <£100/tCO2 may be possible by 2050  
 
Source: CCC analysis. *See, for example, IEAGHG (2019) Towards zero emissions CCS. 
Notes: For a detailed description of which assumptions are included in which scenarios for each sector, and the sources for key assumptions in our advice 
see the Methodology Report that accompanies the Sixth Carbon Budget advice.  
EINAs =Energy Innovation Needs Assessments.  
**A seasonal performance factor is a multiplier effect on heat output, per unit of electricity input, averaged over a year. 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
408 
4. Why the recommendation does not require faster progress 
Our Balanced Pathway reaches Net Zero in 2050 for all greenhouse gases, 
including the UK’s share of emissions from international aviation and international 
shipping (IAS), and assuming forthcoming inventory choices that result in emissions 
at the high end of the potential range (see Box 2.1 in Chapter 2). 
 
The date for Net Zero would be earlier on other bases that exclude IAS emissions 
and/or are for CO2 rather than the full range of greenhouse gases* and/or assume 
lower or no forthcoming inventory changes (Table 9.2).  
 
Table 9.2 
When the Balanced Net Zero Pathway reaches Net Zero emissions on different bases 
 
‘High-high’ inventory changes† 
‘Low-low’ inventory changes 
Including IAS, all greenhouse gases 
2050 
2048 
Excluding IAS, all greenhouse gases 
2047 
2045 
Including IAS, CO2 only 
2044 
2043 
Excluding IAS, CO2 only 
2041 
2041 
 
While our advice on the level of the Sixth Carbon Budget is based on making 
sufficient progress to get on track to achieving Net Zero by 2050, we have also 
considered an accelerated timeline – the Tailwinds scenario – should it be possible 
to get larger behavioural/societal changes and cost reductions faster and to a 
larger extent than we assume in a central case. 
 
However, as we set out in section 3 of Chapter 2, we cannot be confident that 
these changes will or can occur. The better performance under Tailwinds than our 
recommended Sixth Carbon Budget would be very welcome if feasible, and UK 
policy should seek to achieve the performance in this scenario where possible. 
However, given large questions over its feasibility, it would not be appropriate to 
make it a legal requirement at this stage.  
 
Setting out on our proposed path could enable deeper reductions should 
innovation and engagement develop positively. If that were to happen, it would 
be perfectly possible and sensible for the UK to outperform the budget, which 
would be beneficial for the climate and could be desirable for the UK 
economically. That could be reflected in updated legislation in five years’ time 
when the Committee advise on the seventh carbon budget, as well as for the next 
UK NDC. 
 
The relatively limited extra impact of the Tailwinds scenario – it reaches Net Zero by 
2042 rather than 2050 – is because the recommended pathway is already a highly 
ambitious pathway and, even with immediate policy action, there are real-world 
constraints across a range of sectors that mean it takes time to reach very high 
rates of emissions reduction: 
 
 
*   Although all of the greenhouse gases (GHGs) contribute to warming temperatures, peak temperature change is 
determined by when emissions of long-lived GHGs reach Net Zero (assuming that short-lived GHG emissions are not 
rising). Of the long-lived GHGs, CO2 contributes most to warming and therefore the date of Net Zero CO2 is closely 
linked with when the contribution to rising temperatures ends. 
†   ‘High-high’ refers to AR5 GWPs with climate-carbon feedbacks and a higher estimate of emissions from peatlands. 
‘Low-low’ refers AR5 GWPs without climate-carbon feedbacks and a lower estimate of emission from peatlands. 
The UK Net Zero target in 2050 
is for all greenhouse gases, 
including from international 
aviation and shipping. 
Different coverage would 
mean an earlier Net Zero date. 
Our Tailwinds scenario goes 
further, but we cannot be 
confident now that this is 
feasible. 
409 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
Developing supply chains, business models and markets. Even for known 
technologies, it takes time to develop whole supply chains, build skills, 
manufacture and construct the required capacity, build confidence 
amongst business and the public and develop effective new business 
models. Our assessment is that this is likely to take close to a decade for the 
buildings and transport sectors, even with a strong policy framework to 
drive these changes.  
• 
Infrastructure development. The transition to Net Zero will require expansion 
of existing infrastructure (e.g. electricity grids and electric vehicle charging 
networks), development of new ones (e.g. for CO2 transport and storage) 
and potential repurposing of fossil infrastructure to be low-carbon (i.e. 
conversion of gas networks to hydrogen). These developments generally 
have significant lead-times. Uptake of new technologies such as electric 
vehicles, hydrogen and CCS will be limited or non-existent until supporting 
infrastructure is sufficiently developed.  
• 
The need for pilots and demonstrations prior to mass deployment. As set out 
in section 3, it is important to trial potential large-scale solutions to reduce 
emissions before committing to them to the exclusion of other options. 
While this can push back the timeline for widespread deployment slightly, it 
is likely to be worthwhile to avoid the risk that unforeseen issues arise that 
derail the entire programme. 
 
Given these challenges, there are risks of trying to go too fast that could backfire 
and undermine a more ambitious target.  
• 
Requiring an extremely rapid transition to Net Zero could have unintended 
consequences, as feasible options to reduce emissions are limited. This 
could lead to a dash for options to fill the gap, which could include large-
scale use of biomass (e.g. with CCS to provide greenhouse gas removals). 
This may imply a high reliance on imported biomass, potentially beyond 
what can be supplied sustainably and driving unwelcome land-use 
changes in other countries.  
• 
Going beyond the natural rate of stock turnover would lead to premature 
scrappage of assets (e.g. vehicles, boilers), which could be costly and risk 
undermining popular support for transition and increasing embedded 
emissions. 
• 
A smooth transition is likely to be a just transition, avoiding stop-start 
programmes for the jobs market and investment. An attempt to make the 
transition too quickly would make a just transition more difficult to achieve 
as it would imply stop-go replacement profiles. 
• 
Emissions reduction targets that are too ambitious to be credibly delivered 
could undermine the international influence of strengthened UK targets. A 
significant aspect of the UK’s international influence comes from the 
expectation that once set these targets will be met or exceeded.  
 
Our Balanced Net Zero Pathway has been designed to be ambitious on emissions 
reductions over the next 15 years, subject to the real-world considerations and 
given uncertainty on how supportive people will be of the transition in their choices 
and behaviours and how quickly technologies will develop. 
 
We note that some groups have proposed even faster transitions, for example 
reaching Net Zero emissions by 2030, or even 2025. The Committee consider such 
dates to be implausible to deliver against, and potentially self-defeating as a goal. 
 
It is important to be ambitious 
but without requiring steps that 
would undermine the 
transition. 
Chapter 9: The shape of the emissions path to Net Zero 
410 
• 
Even under the very extreme changes in behaviour during the national 
lockdown earlier this year, emissions were only reduced by around a third, 
demonstrating that technological changes would also be needed. We 
have not seen evidence to demonstrate that these can be developed, 
manufactured and rolled out in full over the next five to ten years. We also 
note that over three-quarters of our emissions reduction from nature-based 
solutions would not be able to deliver on this timeline given the lags from 
planting to sequestering of carbon. 
• 
Targeting such an early date for Net Zero would bring a host of perverse 
outcomes, which could undermine the global effort to cut emissions and 
would be out of line with the findings of the Climate Assembly: 
– While in-use emissions might be cut, embedded emissions would 
increase as products were scrapped before the end of their lives. Risks 
of carbon leakage could increase, with emissions overseas increasing 
to replace UK reductions. 
– Public (and business) support for the transition could be lost. It seems 
highly unlikely that the needs of a just transition could still be met – 
wholesale job losses would be expected in some locations with little 
lead-time for example for retraining. Without sufficient time to shift to 
low-carbon heating systems, consumer heating demands could not 
be met. 
– The sorts of draconian measures required to get close to such radical 
targets, along with the inevitable failure in meeting them could make 
adoption of stretching targets by other countries less likely, rather than 
more likely. The UK has offered a positive example of emissions 
reduction alongside economic growth, and the goal should be to 
continue that example. 
– An accelerated transition would go against some of the key principles 
of the Climate Assembly.21 This includes preferences for long-term 
planning towards a phased transition and the need for a joined-up 
approach across the system and all levels of society. 
 
However, as we set out in Chapter 7, there are legitimate analyses based on 
different approaches to equity considerations that point to larger contributions 
from the UK and other rich countries with a large historical contribution to global 
warming. We conclude in Chapter 7 that increased contributions beyond the 
ambitious goals for the UK’s domestic emissions that we propose in this report 
would be best delivered through increased support for global efforts (e.g. through 
climate finance), rather than by setting implausible goals for the UK’s domestic 
emissions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carbon budgets should set 
ambitious requirements for UK 
domestic action. The UK can 
further support global action in 
ways that are better than 
setting targets that are 
implausible. 
411 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
1 See, for example, Cambridge Econometrics (2020) Assessment of Green Recovery plans after 
COVID-19 (a report for the We Mean Business Coalition).  
2 BEIS (2020) Public Attitudes Tracker 
3 CBI (2019) The Low-Carbon 2020s – a decade of delivery 
4 See CCC (2020) The role of business in delivering the UK's Net Zero ambition 
5 See CCC (2020) Local Authorities and the Sixth Carbon Budget 
6 BEIS (2020) Public Attitudes Tracker; Energy Systems Catapult (2020) Net Zero: A Consumer 
Perspective. 
7 Gross et al. (2018) How long does innovation and commercialisation in the energy sectors take?  
8 See 4 
9 Wilson et al. (2020) Granular technologies to accelerate decarbonization; Rubin et al. (2015) A 
review of learning rates for electricity supply technologies 
10 Lang (2017) Nuclear Power Learning and Deployment Rates; Disruption and Global Benefits 
Forgone 
11 See 7 
12 Developer estimate from EdF. World Nuclear News (2018) EDF Energy expects 20% cost saving 
for Sizewell C 
13 POST (2018) POSTnote 580 - Small Modular Nuclear Reactors 
14 BEIS (2019) Energy Innovation Needs Assessments 
15 See 11 
16 See, for example, The Future of Flight Fund: UKRI (2020) Future of mobility 
https://www.ukri.org/our-work/delivering-economic-impact/industrial-strategy-challenge-
fund/future-of-mobility/  
17 CCC (2020) Insights Briefings: Sharing the UK approach to addressing climate change 
18 See Advisory Group report on The Road to Net Zero Finance, available at www.theccc.org.uk  
19 BECCS = Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage; DACCS = direct air capture with carbon 
capture and storage. 
20 See for example Agora Energiewende (2019) EU-wide innovation support is key to the success of 
electrolysis manufacturing in Europe (Figure 1) 
21 Climate Assembly UK (2020) The path to net zero 
 
 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
412 
Recommendations on the Sixth 
Carbon Budget 
 
 
1. The Sixth Carbon Budget level and emissions accounting 
416 
2. Nationally Determined Contribution for 2030 
428 
3. Increasing effort during existing carbon budgets 
430 
4. Traded-sector emissions and UK emission trading system cap 
436 
5. Next steps: A Net Zero plan and monitoring of progress 
440 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
414 
Introduction and key messages 
 
This Chapter sets out the Committee’s recommendations, as required by the 
Climate Change Act, based on the analysis set out in the rest of this report. 
• 
Budget level. We recommend that the Sixth Carbon Budget for 2033-2037 is 
set at 965 MtCO2e, implying a reduction in emissions to 2035 of 78% from 
1990 levels or 63% from 2019. 
• 
Budget scope. Our recommended budget includes emissions from the UK’s 
share of international aviation and international shipping (IAS). It also allows 
for forthcoming changes to the UK’s emissions inventory to fully incorporate 
the emissions from peatlands and the IPCC’s latest estimates for the global 
warming potential of different greenhouse gases. 
– The Committee do not consider the previous approach of allowing 
‘headroom’ for aviation and shipping emissions to be sufficient, given 
the importance of these emissions and the risk of different treatments 
in UK legislation being seen as unfair. 
– While there remains some uncertainty on the non-CO2 effects of 
aviation, it is clear that these have a warming effect on top of that 
from its CO2 emissions. While it is not scientifically valid to account for 
these impacts on a ‘CO2-equivalent’ basis, action to limit these 
impacts will be needed – just dealing with aviation CO2 is not enough. 
• 
Judging performance. We recommend that the Government plan to meet 
the Sixth Carbon Budget through reductions in actual UK emissions and UK 
greenhouse gas removals.  
– UK-based engineered greenhouse gas removals should be allowed to 
meet the carbon budgets and the Net Zero target.  
– International carbon credits should not be used to meet the budget, 
though they may be useful policy tools and appropriate ways to go 
beyond the carbon budgets to support global decarbonisation efforts.  
– Should the UK’s participation in the EU Emissions Trading System (EU 
ETS) be replaced with a UK ETS linked with the EU system, we will 
provide further advice on how to account for cross-border trading 
under the carbon budgets. 
• 
The UK’s Nationally Determined Contribution. We recommend that the UK 
NDC is set to require at least a 68% reduction from 1990 to 2030 on a basis 
that excludes emissions from international aviation and international 
shipping, in line with UN convention.  
– The headline reduction of at least 68% should be accompanied with a 
clear statement of intent to tackle IAS emissions. For example, that 
could include a commitment to include them in the UK’s Sixth Carbon 
Budget, a 2030 target for IAS emissions and new strategies for reducing 
emissions from both shipping and aviation to Net Zero. 
– This ambition should be within a transparent NDC that also signals the 
UK’s contributions on climate finance, technology development and 
capacity building, and plans on adaptation. 
– The Government could choose to use credits to go beyond the 68% 
reduction as a greater international contribution. 
 
Our recommended Sixth 
Carbon Budget means a 63% 
reduction in emissions vs. 2019. 
A full scope of greenhouse gas 
emissions should be included. 
The Budget reflects actions 
required in the UK. 
We recommend an NDC on 
the same path as the Sixth 
Carbon Budget. 
415 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
The Fifth Carbon Budget. Emissions must fall more quickly to 2030 than 
required by the currently legislated Fifth Carbon Budget, and policy must 
be strengthened further than previously planned to deliver greater action. It 
is for the Government to decide whether the currently legislated budgets 
should be amended to bring them in line with the Net Zero 2050 target, 
however the Committee does not consider it necessary to change the 
budget level in law – the focus should be on developing policy to deliver 
the new Sixth Carbon Budget and the UK’s NDC for 2030. 
• 
UK Emissions Trading System. We recommend that the cap for the UK ETS 
should be set in line with the Balanced Net Zero Pathway developed in this 
report, implying a 53% reduction in emissions from 2019 to 2030 for the 
sectors currently covered by the EU ETS. In the case that a UK ETS is not 
established, the same level of emissions reductions should be targeted in 
these sectors. 
• 
Net Zero Plan. We recommend that the Government accept the advice in 
this report as soon as possible and set out their policies to deliver against it 
in the first half of 2021. The expected impact of policies, including those in 
early planning, should be clearly quantified and in sum be enough to meet 
the budget. 
• 
Consumption emissions. While territorial emissions remain the best basis for 
UK carbon budgets, the Committee will continue to scrutinise progress on 
consumption emissions as well, and to recommend policies that reduce 
both. We will monitor consumption emissions against a Paris-aligned 
trajectory in our future annual Progress Reports to Parliament. If UK territorial 
emissions are reduced to Net Zero and UK trading partners reduce their 
emissions in line with the Paris Agreement we estimate (in Chapter 7) that 
UK consumption emissions would be around 90% below 1990 levels in 2050. 
 
This chapter is set out in six sections: 
1. The Sixth Carbon Budget level and emissions accounting 
2. Nationally Determined Contribution for 2030  
3. Increasing effort during existing carbon budgets 
4. Traded-sector emissions and UK emission trading system cap 
5. Next steps: A Net Zero plan and monitoring of progress 
 
 
 
A Government plan for Net 
Zero and the Sixth Carbon 
Budget is needed as soon as 
possible. 
Territorial emissions are the 
best basis for UK targets, but 
we will track consumption 
emissions against a Paris-
aligned trajectory. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
416 
1. The Sixth Carbon Budget level and emissions accounting 
This section sets out our recommended level for the Sixth Carbon Budget and the 
basis on which it should be measured. It is in seven parts: 
a) The level of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
b) Judging performance based on actual emissions 
c) Inclusion of international aviation & shipping in carbon budgets 
d) Non-CO2 impacts of aviation and shipping 
e) The contribution of greenhouse gas removals 
f) The use of international carbon offsets or credits 
g) Accounting for all UK greenhouse gas emissions in full  
 
a) The level of the Sixth Carbon Budget 
 
The Committee recommends a Sixth Carbon Budget of 965 MtCO2e, including 
emissions from the UK’s share of international aviation and shipping (IAS). 
 
The reduction of emissions on this scope to 191 MtCO2e per year in 2035 represents 
a 78% reduction in emissions on 1990 levels, a 63% reduction against 2019 levels 
and a 72% reduction against 2010 levels (Figure 10.1).  
 
This recommended budget aligns to the Balanced Net Zero Pathway set out in 
Chapters 2 and 3, which was built on multiple lines of evidence and takes into 
account what is feasible and what is necessary to get on track to Net Zero by 2050.  
 
Delivering the budget will require progress on all emissions sources and scaling up 
investment and supply chains so that almost all new purchases and investments 
are zero-carbon by around 2030, together with development and deployment of 
greenhouse gas removal options, and adoption of low-carbon behaviours. 
 
We assess it to be a fair pathway that is compatible with global efforts to limit 
warming to 1.5°C. It would reduce per-capita emissions in the UK by 2035 to the 
global average level of per-capita emissions from the median of the IPCC’s 
pathways for limiting warming to 1.5°C with a 50% probability.  
 
 
 
Our recommended Sixth 
Carbon Budget means a 63% 
reduction in emissions vs. 2019. 
 
We assess it to be a fair 
contribution to the aims of the 
Paris Agreement. 
417 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 10.1 The recommended Sixth Carbon  
Budget 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis 
Notes: Emissions shown include emissions from international aviation and shipping (IAS) and on an AR5 basis, 
including peatlands. Adjustments for IAS emissions to carbon budgets 1-3 based on historical IAS emissions data; 
adjustments to carbon budgets 4-5 based on IAS emissions under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway. 
 
b) Judging performance based on actual emissions 
 
Our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget applies to actual emissions (and 
removals), rather than the measure of emissions adjusted for trading in the EU ETS 
that has been used to date. 
 
The first five carbon budgets were set based on a measure of emissions (the ‘net 
carbon account’) that adjusts the UK’s actual emissions to reflect trading between 
UK sites and those in other countries under the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). 
In effect this means that the budget for the ‘traded sector’ of the economy (i.e. 
those sectors for which emissions are covered by the EU ETS) has been set and 
evaluated based on the UK’s share of the EU ETS cap for those sectors, rather than 
on their actual emissions from UK installations covered by the EU ETS. 
 
Accounting for actual UK emissions under the carbon budgets has several 
advantages over the approach used to date: 
• 
Transparency. It is important in designing emissions targets that they provide 
a clear signal to policymakers, investors and the wider public about the 
extent of the emissions reductions that are required. The most transparent 
method is to account for actual emissions in all sectors.  
The previous approach to 
emissions accounting was 
confusing and did not drive 
action in all areas. 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
5-year carbon budget (MtCO2e)
Emissions including IAS 
(MtCO2e/year)
The Sixth Carbon Budget
Headroom for IAS emissions
Past carbon budgets
Active legislated carbon budgets
Historical emissions
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway
CB1  CB2  CB3  CB4  CB5   CB6          
CB6
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
418 
• 
Recognition of efforts. Long-term decarbonisation of the economy will 
require contributions from all sectors. Emissions accounting approaches 
that treat some sectors differently may distort decarbonisation strategies 
(e.g. leading to use of finite bioenergy resources in sectors where emissions 
reductions ‘count’ rather than where they are most cost-effective).  
• 
Policy focus. The carbon budgets framework is designed to drive policy 
action to reduce emissions. It is essential that the emissions accounting 
system requires appropriate UK policy actions across all sectors.  
• 
Recognising the dynamics of trading systems.  
– The ‘net carbon account’ measure assumes that a trading system cap 
will be binding once set. That has not been the experience through 
the EU ETS – parallel climate policies, particularly support for renewable 
energy, together with weaker than expected economic performance 
following the financial crisis, led to emissions being below the cap on a 
sustained basis.  
– That has allowed caps for future phases to be set at a lower level, 
while mechanisms like the Market Stability Reserve have removed 
emissions allowances in the current phase. This has resulted in the UK’s 
share of the EU ETS emissions cap being lower than expected, 
meaning that the UK carbon budgets have ended up being too loose. 
 
Moreover, the UK’s departure from the EU ETS means that the measure adjusted for 
trading with participants in other countries may no longer be meaningful for the 
Sixth Carbon Budget, or indeed any carbon budgets from now on (see section 4).  
 
At the time of writing, it is unclear whether the UK will replace its participation in the 
EU ETS with a UK ETS that is linked to the EU ETS, or whether there will be a UK-only 
solution (e.g. a tax or a UK ETS that is not linked to the EU ETS). 
 
We recommend that the Government makes plans to meet the Sixth Carbon 
Budget on the basis of actual UK emissions and removals. Should the replacement 
scheme involve cross-border emissions trading, the Committee will advise on 
ensuring that this is treated appropriately under carbon budget accounting. 
 
c) Inclusion of international aviation & shipping in carbon budgets  
 
The Climate Change Act allows the Government to decide to include the UK’s 
share of international aviation and international shipping (IAS) emissions in carbon 
budgets and the 2050 (Net Zero) target. Under section 35 of the Act, when 
recommending a carbon budget the Committee must also advise on whether IAS 
should be included with its scope. We advise that IAS emissions should be included 
in the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
To date, IAS emissions have been accounted for, but not formally included in the 
budgets or 2050 target: 
• 
Carbon budgets have been set excluding IAS emissions, but with lower 
emissions allowed for the other sectors to leave headroom for IAS emissions. 
• 
The Government has recognised the need to include IAS emissions within its 
planning for meeting the 2050 target, both for the previous 80% target and 
again for the Net Zero target.1 This recognition is consistent with the 
approach of the Committee when recommending these targets. 
 
Having left the EU, the previous 
accounting approach may no 
longer be meaningful in any 
case. 
The Budget reflects actions 
required in the UK. 
So far, carbon budgets have 
not formally included  
international aviation and 
shipping (IAS) emissions, but 
have allowed for them. 
419 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
However, it is important to include these emissions formally in the legislated targets, 
rather than only being considered as a planning assumption, to guide long-term 
policy approaches and infrastructure investment decisions: 
• 
Complete scope of emissions. It is important that all sources of greenhouse 
gas emissions should be tackled, and that the scope of targets should 
reflect this. This is particularly relevant for aviation, which is likely to be the 
second-largest emitting sector in the UK by 2050, even with strong progress 
on technology and limiting demand growth. Continued exclusion from 
carbon budgets gives an impression of special treatment and raises 
questions over fairness for other sectors. 
• 
UK influence and supplementary levers. While the primary policy 
approaches to tackling IAS emissions should be international, the UK is a key 
player in driving strong international mechanisms. Some supplementary UK 
policy levers are also available that would not impact on the 
competitiveness of the IAS sectors. It is important that the UK Government 
prioritises both of these avenues (see our accompanying Policy Report). 
• 
Flexibility. Including IAS emissions within the formal scope of the Climate 
Change Act targets provides extra flexibility in meeting them. Whereas their 
exclusion would mean that allowance has to be made outside the target 
for these emissions, inclusion opens up the possibility for the IAS sectors to 
achieve more and contribute more to meeting the UK’s emissions targets. 
• 
Need for integration with wider Net Zero strategy. The UK’s overall emissions 
reduction strategy should be integrated across the economy. This includes 
requirements for fuelling infrastructure and supply of alternative fuels (e.g. 
hydrogen, ammonia, synthetic fuels) and the overall scale of greenhouse 
gas removals to balance remaining emissions to reach Net Zero.  
• 
Inclusion of IAS is manageable. While the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) treats emissions from 
international aviation and international shipping separately from emissions 
solely within country borders, allocating these emissions to countries 
presents no fundamentally greater challenges than for other sectors 
already included in UK emissions targets: 
– Emissions are already estimated and reported to the UN and can be 
included in UK emissions targets on the same basis. 
The uncertainty attached to estimates of IAS emissions is no higher 
than for other sectors covered by carbon budgets (Box 10.1). 
– While careful policy design is necessary to avoid simply pushing 
emissions abroad, such considerations also apply to sectors already 
covered by carbon budgets (e.g. manufacturing and agriculture).  
– Inclusion in the UK carbon budgets does not preclude exclusion in 
communications to the UN, as we recommend for the UK’s 2030 NDC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is important and feasible to 
include IAS emissions formally 
in the legislated targets. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
420 
 
Box 10.1 
Uncertainty in estimating IAS emissions compared to other UK sectors 
The Climate Change Act requires that inclusion of international aviation and shipping in 
targets be on the basis of international carbon reporting practice. Bunker fuel sales are 
the currently agreed methodology by which countries report IAS emissions to the UN. 
While a range of alternative methodologies have been proposed, uncertainty in IAS 
emissions is no higher than for sectors already covered by carbon budgets (Figure below). 
 
• Domestic aviation and shipping emissions are already formally included within the Net 
Zero target on the basis of bunker fuel sales. 
• For international aviation, bunker fuel sales accurately reflect activity as airlines do not 
tend to carry more fuel than needed for a given flight (UK departing-flight emissions 
modelled by DfT are within 4% of the bunker fuel sales estimate). 
• For international shipping, bunker fuels may not accurately reflect country-level 
shipping activity and emissions, given the potential for ships to refuel at multiple ports 
on routes. Differences between this bunker fuel approach and alternative 
methodologies could be more material (e.g. an activity-basis allocation could double 
the UK’s share of IS emissions), but will diminish as the sector decarbonises. 
• Were alternative methodologies for measuring IAS emissions to be developed and 
agreed internationally for annual reporting (e.g. by the International Civil Aviation 
Authority (ICAO) and the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) or the UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change), the higher emissions are likely sufficiently 
small as to be manageable within carbon budgets (see section 2 of Chapter 2). 
 
Figure B10.1 Uncertainty in IAS emissions  
compared to wider uncertainties in  
carbon budgets 
 
Source: Letter from Lord Deben to the Secretary of State for Transport about Net Zero and the approach to 
international aviation and shipping (IAS) emissions. 
 
Uncertainty in IAS emissions is 
no greater than for other 
sectors. 
421 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Inclusion of IAS emissions in UK climate targets does not equate to the adoption of 
a unilateral policy approach to tackling these emissions, which could be argued to 
undermine existing multilateral processes under the respective UN bodies (the 
International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) and the International Maritime 
Organisation (IMO)). Rather, it ensures that the UK takes full responsibility for these 
emissions and that, where necessary, effort in other sectors can be altered to 
ensure overall emissions are within the necessary limits. 
 
The time has come for the UK to include IAS emissions formally in the Net Zero 
target and also in the Sixth Carbon Budget, which finishes only 13 years before 
2050. 
 
We therefore conclude that IAS emissions should be included in carbon budgets as 
early as possible (see section 3), and certainly formally within the scope of the 
Sixth Carbon Budget and 2050 target. Alongside this, the UK should push for suitably 
strong international targets and mechanisms to deliver reductions in IAS emissions. 
 
Should the international processes through the IMO and ICAO fail to set suitable 
ambition, the UK could take subsequent action to decarbonise these sectors. 
Ultimately, whether via a global scheme or a domestic/more limited international 
mechanism, any remaining UK IAS emissions in 2050 will need to be balanced by 
greenhouse gas removals in order for the sectors to achieve Net Zero.  
 
The Climate Change Act requires that inclusion be on the basis of international 
carbon reporting practice. Bunker fuel sales are the currently agreed methodology 
by which countries report IAS emissions to the UN, and are therefore the 
recommended method of inclusion. Uncertainties over future emissions accounting 
methods are similar in size to those in other areas of the carbon budget and are 
manageable within the overall envelope of emissions (see section 2 of Chapter 2). 
 
The Committee does not consider the Government’s previous approach of 
allowing ‘headroom’ for IAS emissions to be sustainable. Under this approach since 
2008, progress has been insufficient: 
• 
The processes under the IMO and ICAO have objectives for emissions 
reduction that are less ambitious than the UK has adopted under its Net 
Zero target and less ambitious than required to meet the goals of the Paris 
Agreement. 
• 
Updated UK aviation and shipping strategies to date have been delayed 
(in part due to COVID-19), while previous plans have had limited ambition. 
The Clean Maritime Plan considered options for decarbonising the shipping 
sector, but did not formally commit to a 2050 target or trajectory. The 
previous Aviation Strategy focused more on noise, air traffic modernisation 
and expansion than on CO2 emissions and climate change. 
• 
Aviation continues to be under-taxed relative to other emitting activities, 
undermining efforts to limit demand for aviation. 
 
Excluding emissions from international aviation and shipping from carbon budgets 
and leaving headroom based on their appropriate contribution is therefore not a 
credible approach.  
 
If IAS emissions follow a ‘near-BAU’ path rather than reducing as in our Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway, then emissions would be around 13 MtCO2e higher in 2035. 
Were that to be the case, then emissions from other sectors would need to be 
comparably lower to compensate – but the headroom approach would not 
automatically require that.  
Inclusion of IAS emissions in UK 
climate targets does not imply 
taking a unilateral policy 
approach for them. 
It is time to include IAS 
emissions formally in the Net 
Zero target and carbon 
budgets. 
The Government’s previous 
approach of allowing 
‘headroom’ for IAS emissions is 
not enough. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
422 
d) Non-CO2 impacts of aviation and shipping 
 
As well as CO2 emissions resulting from combustion of hydrocarbon fuels, aviation 
and shipping result in a number of non-CO2 effects that are not currently within the 
legal scope of carbon budgets or the basket of greenhouse gases used 
internationally (i.e. CO2, methane, nitrous oxide and various F-gases). We set out 
the implications of our scenarios for these aviation non-CO2 effects in Chapter 8. 
• 
Aviation produces a range of different pollutants that affect the climate in 
different ways. The most significant effect is from creation of contrails and 
high cirrus clouds, although the impacts of these are short-lived. Measuring 
these effects on an annual basis is challenging, given their short-term 
nature and dependence on localised conditions. Some policies are 
already in place to limit some of these non-CO2 effects, such as NOx due to 
its impact on local air quality. 
• 
Shipping has non-CO2 effects that come from the emission of sulphur 
dioxide, which has an overall cooling effect on the climate but causes 
local air pollution. However, improved fuel quality standards with 
significantly lower sulphur contents came in to force in 2020, which will 
reduce this cooling effect. 
 
In both aviation and shipping these non-CO2 effects are mainly short-lived, 
meaning that if they were stopped their effects on the climate would rapidly 
disappear. In magnitude these have likely had a larger effect on the climate than 
aviation CO2 emissions (see section 4 of Chapter 8).  
 
Not all ways of reducing aviation CO2 emissions have equal implications for these 
non-CO2 effects, with distance flown and total fuel burnt (regardless of whether this 
is fossil jet fuel) important differentiators: 
• 
Reduced demand for aviation. A reduction in flights that is sustained over 
time would reduce the level of warming from aviation non-CO2 effects.  
• 
Improved aircraft efficiency. Improvements in efficiency lead to less fuel 
burnt per flight, and lower CO2 emissions. This would also lead to some 
reduction in non-CO2 effects, but fractionally less than for the reduction in 
CO2 emissions, as some aviation non-CO2 effects (e.g. contrail cirrus) are 
driven primarily by the distance flown rather than the fuel burnt. 
• 
Use of hydrocarbon sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). Using truly sustainable 
aviation fuels would reduce fossil CO2 emissions from aviation, but would 
not eliminate aviation non-CO2 effects. While there is early evidence 
emerging that some SAF fuel types might generate less soot, and so 
generate fewer cirrus clouds, this is yet to be validated at commercial 
scale. 
 
When considering how to limit emissions from aviation, it is therefore important to 
recognise these non-CO2 effects are significant, and that constraining the total 
distance flown each year has a greater relative benefit to the climate than 
measures that reduce the carbon-intensity of flying. 
 
While there remains uncertainty on the non-CO2 effects of aviation, and further 
research is necessary, current best estimates show that aviation has a significant 
warming effect on top of that from its CO2 emissions. Action to limit these non-CO2 
climate effects will be necessary, although not at the expense of reducing CO2 
emissions, which have a longer-lasting impact on the climate. 
 
Aviation produces shorter-lived 
warming effects not captured 
by UN emissions accounting 
methods. 
Limiting the total distance 
flown is the most effective way 
to limit non-CO2 impacts from 
aviation. 
423 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Comparing aviation’s non-CO2 and CO2 effects and their relevant impacts on the 
climate over different timescales is complex, and will be highly dependent on the 
future demand and emissions trajectory for the sector. Attempting to consolidate 
these non-CO2 effects down into a single metric (e.g. a multiplier to apply to CO2 
emissions) for inclusion in UK targets would not be robust.  
 
The Committee therefore do not currently recommend inclusion of non-CO2 effects 
of aviation or shipping within the budgets.  
 
However, action to limit these effects is necessary – just dealing with aviation CO2 is 
not enough. We therefore recommend a minimum goal that there should be no 
additional aviation non-CO2 warming beyond 2050. We will monitor developments 
on aviation (and shipping) non-CO2 effects, and the evidence of their impacts, in 
our annual Progress Reports. 
 
e) The contribution of greenhouse gas removals 
 
Under section 29 of the Climate Change Act, greenhouse gas removals are 
defined as ‘removals of that gas from the atmosphere due to land use, land-use 
change or forestry activities’.  
 
While such ‘natural removals’ are vitally important in achieving Net Zero, our 
assessment is that it currently appears unlikely that Net Zero could be achieved 
cost-effectively without also a significant contribution from ‘engineered’ removals 
of CO2 (e.g. use of bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) or direct 
air capture of CO2 with storage (DACCS) – see section 11 of Chapter 3). 
 
For CO2 removal to contribute effectively to the carbon budgets it must be 
genuine and permanent removal. Strong, effective sustainability standards and 
verification processes will be vital for including the contribution of CO2 removal. 
 
We recommend that engineered CO2 removal is allowed to contribute to meeting 
UK carbon targets under the Climate Change Act. 
 
This need not require amendment of the Climate Change Act. For example, a UK 
removals credit (or ‘carbon unit’ under the Climate Change Act) could be 
defined, such that these UK-located removals can contribute to meeting carbon 
budgets and the Net Zero target.  
 
This would enable the 23 Mt of CO2 removals in our 2035 scenario to be funded 
through UK carbon credits paid for by sectors like aviation or fossil fuel extraction 
that are expected to still have positive emissions in the UK – the outcome of such a 
policy would match our pathway in terms of actual emissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
‘Engineered’ removals appear 
vital for Net Zero and the Sixth 
Carbon Budget. They must be 
allowed to contribute. 
It would not be scientifically 
robust to include aviation non-
CO2 effects alongside the 
greenhouse gases in carbon 
budgets. 
However, aviation non-CO2 
effects are important and must 
be monitored and tackled. No 
further warming should occur 
from 2050. 
 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
424 
f) The use of international carbon offsets or credits 
 
Use of international credits under carbon budgets 
 
Under section 34 of the Climate Change Act, the Committee’s recommendation 
on a carbon budget must also advise on the extent to which it should be met 
through emissions reductions as against use of ‘carbon units’ (e.g. international 
emissions credits). 
 
In alignment with our 2019 Net Zero advice, the recommendations provided in this 
advice relate to action to reduce emissions within the UK, as part of UK leadership 
on climate change and as an appropriate contribution to reducing emissions 
globally. The Balanced Net Zero Pathway achieves the budget fully through 
domestic actions utilising the UK’s range of low-carbon resources, including for CO2 
removal, for which the UK is well placed given its strong CO2 storage capacity, 
strong offshore engineering expertise and governance structures.  
 
As we set out in Chapter 7, use of international carbon credits in place of domestic 
action poses a number of risks including that use of credits would detract from UK 
leadership and reduce clarity on the steps required in the UK to meet Net Zero. 
Uncertainties also remain over how international carbon trading will work under the 
Paris Agreement to ensure genuine additionality of effort. 
 
Our recommendation is that the Government should not expect or plan to use 
international credits to meet the Sixth Carbon Budget – the recommended budget 
should be considered a minimum UK contribution through domestic action. 
 
It is important to be clear that this recommendation applies to the use of 
international carbon credits (i.e. paying for emissions reductions elsewhere in the 
world to avoid making the required reductions in the UK). It does not preclude the 
use of carbon credits within the UK as part of the policy mix for achieving 
outcomes aligned to our Balanced Pathway. 
 
It is also the case that the purchase of international carbon credits provides an 
additional lever to support wider climate mitigation action internationally. Credit 
purchase could be a useful part of the UK’s international climate policy as a 
measure in addition to domestic delivery of the legislated carbon budgets (see 
Chapter 7). There is also significant corporate interest in credit purchase, including 
from firms acting strongly to tackle their own emissions. 
 
Any use of international credits (whether purchased by the Government or UK 
companies) should be additional to the domestic effort of the Sixth Carbon Budget, 
to support the global effort to reduce emissions.  
 
We do not identify a particular level of credit purchase should the Government 
choose to go beyond the recommended budget, which should be considered in 
the round of wider UK support for international ambition (see section 2). 
 
We recognise that international credit markets and the UK’s role in them could 
develop in unexpected ways, particularly as the final rules for Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement are agreed, and as new technologies, including for CO2 removal from 
the atmosphere, develop. In particular, if in future credits can be applied to 
sustainable, verified, permanent CO2 removal in a clearly additional way, there 
would be a stronger case to allow them to contribute to UK targets.  
 
 
The recommended budget 
should be considered a 
minimum UK contribution 
through domestic action, 
without international credits. 
The UK could use credits to 
increase ambition beyond the 
budget for domestic action. 
425 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Sections 26-28 of the Climate Change Act allow for changes in the treatment of 
international carbon units and require further advice from the Committee before 
any could be used to contribute to UK carbon budgets. 
 
Interaction with the CORSIA scheme for international aviation 
 
For international aviation, the international Carbon Offsetting and Reduction 
Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) scheme already seeks to offset a 
portion of aviation emissions. Under the scheme, larger airlines flying on routes 
between countries covered by it are required to offset growth in emissions above 
2019 levels by paying for emissions reduction or removal in other sectors. The 
scheme starts in 2021 and is mandatory from 2027. The policy currently stops in 
2035.  
 
The current level of ambition under CORSIA is an insufficient contribution to the 
goals of the Paris Agreement. A more ambitious, long-term global goal for 
international aviation emissions consistent with the Paris Agreement would provide 
a strong and early signal to incentivise the investment in new, cleaner, 
technologies that will be required for the sector to play its role in meeting long-term 
targets. This is particularly important in aviation given the long lifetimes of assets. 
 
In order for operation of CORSIA to be compatible with the UK’s Net Zero 
commitment, there would need to be appropriate governance for offset credits 
and sustainable fuels, as well as an appropriate cap: 
• 
Credits. The credits used to offset emissions would need to lead to genuine 
and verifiable emissions reductions or removals that are additional to what 
would have occurred otherwise. Ultimately, given that all countries will 
need to reduce emissions strongly under the Paris Agreement, offsets will 
need to be based on verified greenhouse gas removals. Appropriate 
governance will be necessary to ensure that these removals are genuine 
and sustainable. 
• 
Sustainable fuels. Use of biofuels, and any other alternative fuels credited 
with emissions reductions under CORSIA, will also need to have suitable 
governance arrangements to ensure that they are from sustainable sources 
and achieve sufficiently high lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions savings. 
• 
Emissions cap. By 2050, the cap under the CORSIA scheme would need to 
be reduced from 2019 emissions to zero.  
 
Ideally the CORSIA rules would develop in line with these requirements. If not, 
carriers operating in the UK would still be able to procure greenhouse gas removal 
(GGR) offsets that do meet the necessary standards, which would also qualify for 
CORSIA. Should the CORSIA cap be above Net Zero, carriers operating in the UK 
should be obliged to procure additional greenhouse gas removals to offset their 
remaining emissions (or an alternative mechanism should be used to achieve an 
equivalent outcome). 
 
For now, the Committee’s recommendation on credits within CORSIA is the same 
as for other credits – they should not be used to meet UK carbon budgets. 
 
It is possible that rules under CORSIA could develop to a point that its offsets could 
be an acceptable contribution to UK carbon budgets. In line with section 28 of the 
Climate Change Act, the Committee would provide further advice before CORSIA 
credits could be used to contribute to UK carbon budgets.  
 
 
The CORSIA scheme is not 
currently compatible with the 
Paris Agreement or the UK’s 
path. 
Under current rules, credits 
under CORSIA should not 
contribute to meeting the 
carbon budgets. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
426 
g) Accounting for all UK greenhouse gas emissions in full 
 
As well as emissions from international aviation and shipping, our proposed budget 
includes full estimates for emissions from UK peatlands and uses the latest estimates 
from the IPCC for the global warming potentials of methane and other non-CO2 
gases. These changes are not currently reflected in the UK emissions inventory, but 
are due to be included over the next few years. 
 
However, some uncertainty remains over exactly how these changes will be 
incorporated in the UK inventory (reflecting uncertainty over which possible 
approach best captures the true level of these emissions – see section 2 of Chapter 
2). If, prior to the Sixth Carbon Budget being legislated, the Government has more 
clarity on the approach that will be taken, our proposed budget could be 
adjusted accordingly. 
• 
Our recommendation on the carbon budget level assumes a current-worst-
case basis for estimating emissions (i.e. we assume the forthcoming 
changes add 26 MtCO2e in 2035, which is at the high end of the potential 
range of 11-26 MtCO2e/year). 
• 
This approach ensures that forthcoming methodological decisions about 
how to estimate UK emissions would not stop this carbon budget from 
being achievable, but it risks that those decisions leave the budget looser 
than intended. To manage that risk, we set out in Table 10.1 the 
appropriate budget level and emissions reduction under the different 
choices that could be made in the forthcoming changes to the inventory 
methodology. 
• 
Should these methodological decisions come after the relevant point when 
the level of the budget could be changed, this is would potentially leave 
some contingency within the budget (see Chapter 2, section 3). 
 
While the Committee recommends that the Sixth Carbon Budget formally includes 
the UK’s share of IAS emissions (see section 3) and the forthcoming inventory 
changes, for comparison with earlier targets we also present in Table 10.1 the 
emissions reduction by 2035 on a basis that excludes IAS emissions. 
 
As required by the Climate Change Act and by the standard international 
accounting approach agreed by the UNFCCC, UK carbon budgets are set on a 
territorial basis (i.e. based on emissions arising from UK sources, not emissions 
embedded in goods and services consumed in the UK). 
 
However, the Committee is clear that progress must also be made in addressing 
emissions measured on a consumption basis (also known as the UK’s carbon 
footprint), and indeed on the wider impacts of UK activity (e.g. including finance 
and aid). We discuss these issues further in Chapter 7.  
 
While territorial emissions remain the best basis for UK carbon budgets, the 
Committee will continue also to scrutinise progress on consumption emissions and 
recommend policies that reduce both. We will monitor consumption emissions 
against a Paris-aligned trajectory in our future annual Progress Reports to 
Parliament. If UK territorial emissions are reduced to Net Zero and UK trading 
partners reduce their emissions in line with the Paris Agreement we estimate (in 
Chapter 7) that UK consumption emissions would be around 90% below 1990 levels 
in 2050. 
 
 
 
Current methods to estimate 
emissions will be improved 
upon in future. 
The precise impact of these 
changes is not yet certain. 
Territorial emissions are the 
best basis for UK targets, but 
we will track consumption 
emissions against a Paris-
aligned trajectory. 
427 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Table 10.1 
Emissions reduction by 2035 on different bases  
 
Reduction on 
1990 levels 
Reduction on 
2010 levels 
Reduction on 
2019 levels 
Including IAS, higher inventory changes  
(the basis for our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget) 
78% 
72% 
63% 
Including IAS, lower inventory changes 
80% 
74% 
65% 
Including IAS, no inventory changes 
81% 
76% 
68% 
Excluding IAS, higher inventory changes 
82% 
76% 
67% 
Excluding IAS, lower inventory changes 
84% 
78% 
69% 
Excluding IAS, no inventory changes 
85% 
80% 
72% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
428 
2. Nationally Determined Contribution for 2030  
On 12 December 2020, three days after this report is published, the UK Government 
will co-host an event with the United Nations to mark the fifth anniversary of the 
Paris Agreement. This has been billed as an opportunity for world leaders to 
announce new and enhanced Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), which 
are due by the end of 2020 under the UN process. Now that the UK has left the EU it 
must submit its own NDC, which takes on particular significance as president of 
COP26 in Glasgow in November 2021. 
 
As set out in Chapter 7, the pathways to Net Zero developed for this report would 
be an appropriate basis for a UK NDC. They imply a progression from current 
targets, are designed to reflect the UK’s highest possible ambition based on 
current evidence, and represent an appropriate contribution to the temperature 
goal of the Paris Agreement that reflects the UK’s responsibilities and capabilities. 
 
The Balanced Net Zero Pathway that underpins our advice on the level of the Sixth 
Carbon Budget reaches 316 MtCO2e in 2030 including the UK’s share of 
international aviation and shipping (IAS) emissions, and 277 MtCO2e without IAS. 
These imply reductions of 64% and 68% respectively on 1990 levels.*  
 
While IAS emissions must be tackled (and we recommend that they are included in 
the Sixth Carbon Budget) we recognise the value in the UK aligning to the 
conventional UN approach by separating these out in its NDC. 
• 
The UN process treats IAS emissions separately, with these reported as a 
separate category and excluded from totals in national territorial emissions 
accounts. 
• 
IAS emissions are covered by the respective UN bodies – the International 
Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) and the International Maritime Organisation 
(IMO) – rather than by the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
• 
IAS emissions are not explicitly covered by the Paris Agreement, but they 
must be addressed to meet the Paris temperature goal. 
• 
Existing NDCs generally have been proposed on a basis that excludes IAS 
emissions. 
 
We recommend that the UK NDC is set to require at least a 68% reduction in 
emissions from 1990 to 2030 on a basis that excludes emissions from international 
aviation and international shipping, in line with UN convention. A clear 
commitment should also be made to tackle IAS emissions: 
• 
The UK’s NDC for 2030 should be for a reduction of at least 68% in UK 
emissions compared to 1990 levels, excluding the UK’s share of international 
aviation and international shipping emissions and without any contribution 
of emissions credits. This equates to a 57% reduction on 2010 emissions on 
the same basis. 
 
 
 
 
* As for the carbon budget, these reductions anticipate forthcoming inventory changes at the high end of the range. 
The UK’s NDC is an important 
signal ahead of COP26 in 
Glasgow. 
We recommend an NDC 
based on our Balanced 
Pathway. 
In line with international 
convention, we recommend 
an NDC on a basis that 
excludes IAS emissions. 
We recommend an NDC for 
at least a 68% reduction in 
emissions by 2030 on 1990 
levels (57% on 2010 levels). 
429 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
The NDC should also commit to further action on IAS in the period before 
2030. For example, the UK could commit to reducing emissions from 
international aviation and shipping by a combined 11% from 2019 to 2030 in 
line with the Balanced Pathway in this report, and set a trajectory to 
achieving Net Zero by 2050, requiring supporting strategies for both aviation 
and shipping. This would be equivalent to an overall reduction of 64% by 
2030 in UK territorial emissions including IAS, relative to 1990. 
• 
The Government could choose to use credits to go beyond the 68% 
reduction as a greater contribution to supporting global emission reduction 
efforts. 
 
The Paris Agreement emphasises the importance of clarity and transparency in 
NDCs. To support that, Table 10.2 sets out our proposed NDC for the UK’s 2030 
emissions on various different bases. The UK’s publication should also demonstrate 
how the NDC meets the requirements of the Paris Agreement in terms of 
supporting the global effort, reflecting equity and being the UK’s highest possible 
ambition on the path to its long-term target for Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2050. 
 
The NDC should also refer to the UK’s efforts on climate adaptation (to be set out 
further in an Adaptation Communication) and refer to how the UK is supporting 
increased ambition overseas, for example through capacity building, technology 
development and climate finance (to be set out further in the UK’s Article 9.5 
communication). 
 
We set out in Chapter 7 actions that the UK should consider in supporting increases 
in global effort and ambition, including approaches for tackling consumption 
emissions, use of trade policy and climate finance. 
 
Table 10.2 
Emissions reduction by 2030 on different bases  
 
Reduction on 
1990 levels 
Reduction on 
2010 levels 
Reduction on 
2019 levels 
Including IAS, higher inventory changes  
(the basis for our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget) 
64% 
54% 
39% 
Including IAS, lower inventory changes 
66% 
56% 
41% 
Including IAS, no inventory changes 
66% 
56% 
41% 
Excluding IAS, higher inventory changes 
(the basis for our recommended NDC) 
68% 
57% 
42% 
Excluding IAS, lower inventory changes 
70% 
59% 
43% 
Excluding IAS, no inventory changes 
70% 
60% 
45% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alongside this, action is 
required on international 
aviation and shipping. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
430 
3. Increasing effort during existing carbon budgets 
Over the formation and execution of the Climate Change Act, the UK has moved 
from a 2050 target to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 60%, to a target to reduce 
emissions of all greenhouse gases by at least 80% to the new Net Zero target 
requiring a 100% reduction, all relative to 1990. Each new carbon budget must be 
directed by the new goal – the Sixth Carbon Budget will be the first set on the path 
to the more ambitious Net Zero goal. 
 
This section discusses the implications of having adopted increased ambition for 
2050, and other changes, on the carbon budgets already in law. Delivering our 
Balanced Net Zero Pathway would imply considerably greater action than 
expected when the Fourth and Fifth Carbon Budgets were set (covering 2023-2027 
and 2028-2032 respectively). That will require outperformance of the fifth budget if 
the UK is to be on track to the sixth budget. That outperformance should not be 
used to water down the Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
We set out the analysis in three parts: 
a) The new path for emissions 
b) Implications for the existing carbon budgets 
c) ‘Carrying forward’ outperformance of carbon budgets 
 
a) The new path for emissions 
 
The existing five carbon budgets out to 2032 were set on the path to the old 80% 
target for 2050. However, inclusion of emissions from international aviation and 
shipping (IAS) in carbon budgets and forthcoming revisions to the baseline 
emissions estimates will make previously legislated carbon budgets harder to 
achieve (Figure 10.2 and Box 10.2). In combination with the requirement to meet 
Net Zero by 2050, and the shift to judge budgets on actual emissions rather than 
the UK carbon account, this implies a much steeper trajectory for UK emissions 
reduction than was previously projected, but from a higher starting point.  
 
The overall impact of the steeper trajectory and the accounting changes roughly 
offset for the Fourth Carbon Budget but not for the Fifth (Figure 10.3): 
• 
Fourth Carbon Budget (2023-27). The legislated level of the fourth budget 
remains broadly appropriate, if IAS emissions remain excluded and judged 
on an ‘actual emissions’ basis, given the current evidence. There is limited 
potential for the steeper path towards Net Zero to lead to extra emissions 
reductions by the mid-2020s, and this is offset by the forthcoming changes 
to the emissions inventory. However, depending on lasting economic 
impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is possible that this budget will be 
outperformed if the Government deliver all the actions in our Balanced 
Pathway. 
• 
Fifth Carbon Budget (2028-32). The legislated Fifth Carbon Budget allows for 
emissions of 345 MtCO2e per year over the five-year period. This budget is 
looser than our Balanced Pathway, even if IAS emissions are included within 
its scope: 
 
The Sixth Carbon Budget is on 
the path to Net Zero, but the 
other carbon budgets were 
set on a path to 80%. 
To 2025, the steeper path is 
offset by increases in emissions  
estimates, so the fourth 
budget is in the right place. 
By 2030, the steeper path 
becomes more important - the 
existing fifth budget is out of 
line with the necessary path. 
431 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
– Excluding IAS emissions. On that scope of emissions, under the 
Balanced Pathway on the path to the sixth budget and Net 
Zero by 2050 emissions would be 278 Mt per year on average 
over the period 2028 to 2032. 
– Including IAS emissions. Even if IAS were included in the scope 
of the Fifth Carbon Budget, the legislated level would still be 
looser than the 317 Mt per year for 2028 to 2032 under our 
Balanced Pathway when including IAS emissions.  
 
Figure 10.2 The Balanced Net Zero Pathway, 
compared to the Fifth Carbon Budget  
cost-effective path 
 
Source: CCC analysis 
Notes: Adjustments for IAS emissions based on IAS emissions under the Balanced Net Zero Pathway, unadjusted for 
COVID-19 impacts. 
 
Box 10.2 
Emissions measurement and accounting issues affecting the Fifth Carbon Budget 
Alongside the steeper reductions in emissions required for Net Zero, there is a range of 
other changes to consider that make consideration of the existing carbon budgets more 
complicated. The forthcoming changes to the methodology for estimating emissions 
under the greenhouse gas inventory (see subsection (g) of section 1) increase estimated 
emissions for 2030, while the inclusion of the UK’s share of IAS emissions (see section 3) 
would increase them further: 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
432 
• Steeper rates of emissions reduction required. Over the 2020s, the new pathway 
implies a reduction of 18 MtCO2e per annum, compared to 12 Mt per annum under 
the pathway set out in the advice on the Fifth Carbon Budget. This means that an 
additional 66 Mt of emissions reductions are needed by 2030. 
• Accounting for actual rather than ‘net’ emissions. The Fifth Carbon Budget was set on 
the basis of the Committee’s advice that anticipated that the UK would continue to 
participate in the EU Emissions Trading System, and that it would be a net seller of 
allowances in 2030. Under the Committee’s pathway for actual emissions, total 
emissions would have been lower by 31 Mt per annum in 2030 than implied by the 
legislated fifth budget.  
• Peatland and global warming potentials (GWPs). Estimates of UK emissions, all the way 
back to 1990, will increase over the next few years due to improvements to estimates 
of the climate impacts of non-CO2 greenhouse gases and the widened scope of the 
set of land use emissions included in the inventory. This will increase estimated UK 
emissions by between 13 and 29 MtCO2e per year, depending on forthcoming 
methodological decisions on how they are estimated (see Box 2.1in Chapter 2). 
• Inclusion of international aviation and shipping (IAS) emissions would add a further 40 
MtCO2e per annum in 2030, based on the Balanced Net Zero Pathway for IAS 
emissions. 
Overall, this means that even higher assumed GWPs and with the wider scope of 
emissions from peatland, aviation and shipping, the legislated Fifth Carbon Budget would 
be too loose by at least 28 MtCO2e per annum in 2030. Without inclusion of IAS emissions, 
this gap between emissions allowed by the Fifth Carbon Budget and that implied by the 
Balanced Pathway would increase to at least 68 Mt per annum in 2030. 
 
 
Figure 10.3 Existing carbon budgets compared 
to the Balanced Net Zero Pathway  
(with and without IAS) 
 
Source: CCC analysis 
Notes: Emissions shown on an AR5 basis, including peatlands. 
433 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) Implications for the existing carbon budgets 
 
Ideally, all future carbon budgets would be aligned with the pathway to achieve 
Net Zero by 2050. This would fulfil the intention of the Climate Change Act for these 
nearer-term budgets to ensure that action is on track for the long-term target. 
 
It is our assessment that the Fourth Carbon Budget is on track with the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway, but that the Fifth Carbon Budget is not. Nor, therefore, is it 
aligned to our recommended NDC for 2030. 
 
It is for the Government to decide whether the currently legislated budgets are 
amended to bring them in line with the revised 2050 target or the 2030 NDC, but 
the Committee does not consider it to be necessary. Forthcoming revisions to the 
UK’s emissions inventory will make existing carbon budgets more challenging. The 
setting of the Sixth Carbon Budget for 2033-37 in accordance with the 
Committee’s advice will also require that the UK cuts emissions in line with the 2030 
NDC to remain on track. Once the sixth budget is legislated, the trajectory towards 
it will have legal force given the requirement in the Climate Change Act that the 
Government prepare policies to meet the 2050 target and all legislated carbon 
budgets. 
 
If the Government wish to align the fifth budget to our recommended NDC, it 
would need to change to 1,585 MtCO2e (assuming the Government enacts the 
power in sections 30-31 of the Climate Change Act to include emissions from 
international aviation and shipping). 
 
That revision would be permissible under the Climate Change Act - since the 
adoption of the UK Net Zero target is clearly a significant change affecting the 
basis for the Fifth Carbon Budget – and under the Paris Agreement – since the 
revised budget would respect the ‘ratchet principle’ as a clear progression in 
ambition on the current commitment. 
 
The Committee will track progress against the Balanced Pathway set out in this 
report and the UK’s NDC for 2030 (implying emissions of 1,585 MtCO2e, including IAS 
emissions, over the Fifth Carbon Budget period), as our best indication of what is 
required to stay on track to our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget and the UK’s 
2050 Net Zero target. 
 
The Government has also recognised the need to go further and increased its 
ambition in several areas compared to previous plans set out in the 2017 Clean 
Growth Strategy. For example, moving the phase-out date earlier for new sales of 
petrol and diesel cars and vans, and increasing ambition on offshore wind to 2030. 
Our pathways in this report demonstrate the need to go further across the 
economy (Table 10.3). 
 
 
 
With the NDC for 2030, and  
the fourth and sixth carbon 
budgets in the right places, it is 
not necessary to change the 
Fifth Carbon Budget. 
Should the Government 
choose to amend the Fifth 
Carbon Budget, its level should 
be 1,585 MtCO2e. 
We will track progress against 
the Balanced Pathway set out 
in this report and the UK’s NDC 
for 2030, rather than the 
existing Fifth Carbon Budget. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
434 
Table 10.3  
Actions in our scenarios that were not included in the Fifth Carbon Budget scenarios by 2030 
 
How are the actions different in the 2020s? 
Surface 
transport 
• BEVs make up the vast majority of new car and van sales by 2030 (reaching 100% by 2032), instead 
of 2035. 
• Slightly higher assumed levels of demand reduction for cars, avoiding 6% of car-kilometres by 2030. 
Buildings 
• Hydrogen trials occur on the gas grid in the 2020s, with regional conversion of the gas grid near 
industrial clusters from 2030. Hydrogen is used in boilers, hybrid heat pumps and to service some 
heat networks. 
• Greater levels of household flexibility are included in our scenarios, facilitated by behaviour 
change in the form of pre-heating, as well as by technologies such as thermal storage and hybrid 
heating configurations. We also consider the impacts of multizone controls in homes and new 
business models such as heat-as-a-service. 
• Heat pumps in public and commercial buildings make up around a quarter rather than a fifth of 
heat demand by 2030 and a large portion are air to water heat pumps (not previously included). 
Fuel supply 
• Measures to abate emissions from fossil fuel supply are accounted for, including electrification of oil 
and gas platforms, reduced venting and flaring and reductions in methane leaks from the gas grid. 
• Our new scenarios include low-carbon hydrogen production (and associated emissions).  
• Wider variety of bioenergy supply routes, with biomass, biogas and bio-wastes used in biojet, 
biodiesel, heating biofuels, biomethane and biohydrogen production, either building on today’s 
commercial production (e.g. biomethane expansion) or new routes starting in the late 2020s or 
2030. 
• Low-carbon ammonia production for shipping by 2030. 
Aviation 
• Aviation emissions were flat in the 2020s in order to meet the 37.5 MtCO2 planning assumption used 
in the fifth carbon budget. Our scenarios now have larger improvements in fuel efficiency and 
uptake of biofuels in the 2020s, and lower demand post-COVID. 
Shipping 
• Widespread roll-out of low-carbon ammonia as a fuel starts in 2030. 
Agriculture and 
land use 
• Our analysis includes all peatland emissions, and our scenarios include new sources of emissions 
savings from behaviour change (e.g. diet change), energy crops and peat restoration. 
Greenhouse 
gas removals 
• Bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) starts deployment in the late 2020s, rather than the mid-2030s. 
• Direct air capture of CO2 with storage (DACCS) also included. 
Electricity 
generation 
• Carbon intensity of generation reaches under 50 gCO2/kWh in 2030, compared to below 100 
gCO2/kWh in the Fifth Carbon Budget scenarios. 
• That reflects, for example, deployment of 40 GW of offshore wind capacity by 2030 compared to 
25 GW previously. Our new scenarios also include some use of low-carbon hydrogen starting in the 
second half of the 2020s, which was not included in the previous analysis. 
Manufacturing 
& Construction 
• Resource efficiency measures are included in the analysis.  
• Energy efficiency is included outside of the eight most energy-intense manufacturing sectors. 
• Fuel switching is applied more widely. The CB5 scenarios had no fuel switching of process heat 
outside of the eight most energy intense sectors. Hydrogen was also not included in CB5 scenarios. 
Waste 
• Biodegradable wastes are still banned from landfill in 2025, although there is now greater action on 
waste prevention as well as recycling in the 2020s (reaching 70% by 2030 and earlier in the DAs), 
phasing out waste exports by 2030, and increasing landfill methane capture rates. 
• Our scenarios now also have actions taken in wastewater (installing advanced anaerobic 
digestion) and composting (installing aeration). 
 
 
 
435 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
c) ‘Carrying forward’ outperformance of carbon budgets 
 
The Climate Change Act allows for the ‘carry forward’ of outperformance of 
carbon budgets to help meet the subsequent budget, subject to the advice of the 
Committee. 
 
Our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget is predicated on it being achieved 
without any such carry forward of outperformance from preceding carbon 
budgets. The level of this budget has been designed to get the UK on track to Net 
Zero by 2050 – using earlier outperformance to reduce the amount of effort would 
not achieve this. If the Government were to carry forward outperformance from 
earlier budgets, the Sixth Carbon Budget would need to be tighter. 
 
More generally, carry forward of outperformance should be avoided, as it would 
lead to worse climate outcomes and risks the meeting of later targets given the 
stretching nature of the Net Zero target: 
• 
Carrying forward outperformance to subsequent budget periods would 
allow an increased level of emissions in that later period. 
• 
Given the importance of cumulative emissions in determining climate 
outcomes (see Chapter 7), increasing allowed emissions in later periods 
should be avoided. This would also be contrary to the principle of ‘highest 
possible ambition’ under the Paris Agreement. 
• 
As well as increasing cumulative emissions, any loosening of later carbon 
budgets that enables effort to be reduced is likely to increase risks in 
meeting subsequent carbon budgets and Net Zero, given the stretching 
nature of these targets. 
 
We therefore recommend that, as a rule, outperformance of carbon budgets is not 
carried forward to subsequent periods.  
 
More generally, given the extremely large outperformance for the Third Carbon 
Budget now expected, for reasons other than policy (i.e. changes in the EU ETS 
and the impact of COVID-19 on emissions), it is especially important that ‘surplus’ 
emissions are not carried forward. Existing budgets are already on track or too 
loose for a path to Net Zero, so there could be no justification to carry forward 
outperformance of the third or subsequent carbon budgets.  
 
 
The Act potentially allows for 
surpluses from carbon budgets 
to help meet subsequent 
budgets, but this is not 
consistent with the Paris 
Agreement. 
As a rule, outperformance of 
carbon budgets should not be 
carried forward to subsequent 
periods. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
436 
4. Traded-sector emissions and UK emission trading system cap 
This section sets out the Committee’s advice on the contributions from different 
sectors of the economy and on emissions covered by emissions trading, as 
required under section 34 of the Climate Change Act. It is in three parts: 
a) Emissions accounting and the role for emissions trading 
b) The path for ‘traded sector’ emissions 
c) Sectoral contributions to emissions reduction 
 
a) Emissions accounting and the role for emissions trading 
 
As set out in section 1, the Committee is recommending a carbon budget based 
on actual emissions, including UK greenhouse gas removals but without adjusting 
for potential cross-border trading of carbon emissions. That is practical given that 
the UK will leave the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) at the end of this year 
and will help improve transparency. 
 
However, emissions trading, and carbon pricing more generally, remains an 
important tool in delivering the transition to Net Zero. The Government has 
proposed a UK Emissions Trading System (UK ETS) and committed to consulting on 
aligning its cap with Net Zero.2 The pathways set out in this report provide a basis 
for setting a Net Zero-aligned cap. 
 
For now, we assume that the scope of emissions covered by emissions trading (the 
‘traded sector’) remains as currently under the EU ETS, with the potential addition 
of engineered greenhouse gas removals (GGR) given their potential in the sectors 
already covered by the EU ETS (e.g. power generation, industry and hydrogen 
production).  
 
If a UK ETS is set up following the UK’s departure from the EU ETS, the rules are likely 
to default to those currently in place under the EU system. Such a mirroring should 
not be retained indefinitely. It will be important for the UK system to evolve from the 
current EU ETS rules, specifically to include engineered removals as being able to 
contribute to meeting the emissions cap. The EU ETS is also likely to need to do so at 
some point, in order to meet the EU’s Net Zero goal.  
 
We note that, should the UK set up its own ETS to follow on from the EU ETS, the 
Government has committed to setting the cap from 2023, following the 
Committee’s advice on a suitable trajectory. It has also committed to review the 
scope of the trading system in 2023 with a view to potentially including additional 
sources of emissions shortly thereafter.  
 
The Committee will review the arrangements to follow the UK’s exit from the EU ETS 
at a later date. 
 
The cap for a UK Emissions 
Trading System should be 
based on the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway. 
437 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
b) The path for ‘traded sector’ emissions 
 
The path to Net Zero entails further sharp reductions in power sector emissions by 
2030, strong reductions in point-source industry emissions and the deployment at 
scale of low-carbon hydrogen production, while engineered removals start to be 
deployed in the late 2020s: 
• 
Power sector emissions continue to fall sharply to 2030 under the Balanced 
Net Zero Pathway, reaching a carbon-intensity of just under 50 gCO2/kWh 
by that date due to large-scale deployment of renewables and nuclear 
and the emergence of decarbonised back-up generation on the path to 
phasing out unabated fossil generation entirely by 2035. 
• 
Traded-sector industry emissions fall significantly between 2020-2030, 
reducing by 49% compared to those in 2019 due to the potential for 
solutions such as carbon capture and storage and hydrogen to be 
deployed at large sites and industrial clusters.  
• 
Aviation emissions from domestic and intra-EU flights are currently traded in 
the EU ETS. After recovery from COVID-19, passenger numbers stay relatively 
flat during the 2020s. Emissions gradually fall between 2023-2030 to around 9 
MtCO2/year by 2030, due to efficiency improvements and initial uptake of 
sustainable aviation fuels. 
• 
Fossil fuelled hydrogen production facilities are currently part of the EU ETS, 
so we would expect the new methane reformation facilities in our scenarios 
to submit emissions allowances for any CO2 not captured by CCS. In our 
scenarios these facilities produce 8 TWh of low-carbon hydrogen in 2030, 
releasing 0.1 MtCO2/year at 95% CO2 capture rate.  
• 
Removals. Deployment of bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) starts in 2027 and 
rises to 5 MtCO2 per year by 2030. 
 
On this basis, we recommend the level of traded sector emissions consistent with 
our Balanced Pathway is used as the basis for a UK emissions trading system cap 
from 2023 to 2030,* with the cap on emissions falling to 61 MtCO2 per year by 2030 if 
excluding greenhouse gas removals or 57 MtCO2 per year if they are included 
(Table 10.4). 
 
Table 10.4 
Traded sector emissions in 2023-30, based on current scope plus potential inclusion of engineered removals 
MtCO2e 
2023 
2024 
2025 
2026 
2027 
2028 
2029 
2030 
Electricity supply 
39 
39 
36 
26 
21 
18 
16 
14 
Industry (manufacturing, construction & 
fuel supply) 
57 
55 
52 
48 
45 
42 
38 
34 
Domestic and intra-EU aviation 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
9 
9 
Proposed ETS cap (for currently traded 
sectors) 
106 
104 
98 
84 
76 
70 
64 
57 
Engineered removals 
0 
0 
0 
0 
-1 
-1 
-4 
-5 
 
Source: CCC analysis 
Notes: Engineered removals not included in overall cap level in table.  
 
 
 
* The Government has committed to aligning the cap of the scheme to the CCC’s proposed pathway from as early as 
January 2023. See HMG (2020) The future of carbon pricing. 
We provide an estimate of the 
appropriate cap for a UK 
Emissions Trading System from 
2023. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
438 
As set out in our previous advice on the UK ETS, carbon trading and the resulting 
carbon price should be used as one policy lever within a wider policy package to 
drive emissions down. Chapter 10 considers the broader policy requirements across 
the economy. 
 
We will return in future advice to the question of whether the scope of the UK ETS 
should be widened. If other sectors are added, the cap should be adjusted in line 
with their emissions trajectories set out in our Balanced Pathway. 
 
c) Sectoral contributions to emissions reduction 
 
The Climate Change Act requires the Committee to advise on the contribution to 
meeting carbon budgets from sectors not covered by emissions trading. Currently 
that covers emissions from transport, buildings, agriculture, land, waste, F-gases 
and less-energy-intensive industry. 
 
Our expectation for those sectors is also that they contribute in line with the 
Balanced Pathway. Overall, we expect them to deliver proportionately smaller 
reductions than the traded sector by 2035, by when we expect their share of UK 
emissions to have increased to over 85%, from 75% in 2019 (Figures 10.4 and 10.5). 
 
Figure 10.4 Traded and non-traded emissions in 
the Balanced Net Zero Pathway 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis.  
Notes: Traded sector abatement for manufacturing, construction and supply is calculated by a split of traded: non-
traded emissions in these sectors in 2020. Engineered removals are counted in the trade sector in this chart. 
 
 
However, it is currently unclear 
what framework will follow UK 
exit from the EU ETS – the 
Committee will advise further 
when things are clearer. 
439 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Figure 10.5 Traded and non-traded emissions in 
the Fifth Carbon Budget and Sixth Carbon Budget 
analysis 
 
Source: BEIS (2020) Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2019; CCC analysis.  
Notes: 5CB pathways have been adjusted to account for inventory changes in the non-traded sector. 6CB 
pathways are for the Balanced Net Zero Pathway. Non-traded emissions are initially lower in the Fifth Carbon 
Budget pathway in 2020 as traded emissions from aviation are not included, as well as a lack of policy action in 
these sectors since publication in 2015. Engineered greenhouse gas removals (GGRs) are excluded from this chart. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
440 
5. Next steps: A Net Zero plan and monitoring of progress  
Following this advice, the Government must set the Sixth Carbon Budget in law by 
the end of June 2021. This must be followed, as soon as is practicable, by a set of 
policies and proposals to meet the budget. We recommend that both these steps 
are taken without delay, in the first half of 2021. 
 
That would demonstrate the UK’s climate credentials as president of COP26 and is 
necessary given the limited time available to accelerate emissions reductions as 
needed to meet the budget. We expect to report on the Government’s strategies 
in our next annual Progress Report in June 2021. 
 
This section sets out our expectations for the Government response, and the 
evolving role of the CCC after this advice. 
 
a) The Government response to this advice 
 
The Climate Change Act (sections 13 and 14) requires that the Government 
develop policies and proposals that would ‘enable’ the carbon budgets and 2050 
target to be met. It is inevitable that not all proposals will be fully developed and 
implemented by early next year. However, the Committee’s interpretation of the 
requirements of the Act (and of good policymaking) is that the Government 
should clearly and quantitatively demonstrate how its proposals will deliver the 
Sixth Carbon Budget. 
 
That should be the goal of the Government’s response to this advice, which should 
set out a quantified set of policy proposals to deliver the Sixth Carbon Budget and 
later Net Zero target: 
• 
The Government’s Energy and Emissions Projections ‘Reference Scenario’ 
sets out expectations for emissions through the carbon budget periods 
under ‘implemented, adopted and agreed’ policies, where the impact of 
these policies has been quantified. The latest publication projects a 57%* 
reduction in emissions from 1990 to 2035 – a long way short of the 72% 
reduction required by our recommended Sixth Carbon Budget on the same 
basis.  
• 
Many other policies have been announced or are being developed. These 
include, for example, the Buildings and Heat Strategy, the Transport 
Decarbonisation Plan, the energy White Paper, a hydrogen strategy and 
the National Infrastructure Strategy. For the purposes of section 14 of the 
Climate Change Act, the Government should set out the intended effect 
of these policies and ‘the time-scales over which those proposals and 
policies are expected to take effect’. They should progress as soon as 
possible to full implementation. 
• 
If these proposals in sum are insufficient to deliver the Sixth Carbon Budget 
the Government should set out the areas where it will develop further and 
stronger policies to deliver deeper emissions reductions, and quantify the 
expected effect of those. 
 
 
*   Estimate on an AR4 basis, excluding inventory revisions for peatland and emissions from international aviation and 
international shipping. BEIS (2020) Updated Energy & Emissions Projections 2019. 
The Government should 
legislate the Sixth Carbon 
Budget and set out its plans 
without delay. 
441 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
• 
If as individual policies progress, their expected impact is reduced, then 
they must be compensated by increasing the impact from other policies or 
by introduction of new policies to fill the gap. The Government’s response 
should therefore also set out an approach to its own tracking of policy 
development and progress to ensure that it stays on track to the Sixth 
Carbon Budget as circumstances and expectations change. 
 
We are publishing a separate ‘Policy report’ alongside this ‘Advice report’ where 
we set out the policy priorities that the Committee has identified to get on track to 
the recommended Sixth Carbon Budget and Balanced Net Zero Pathway. We are 
also publishing the advice from our Expert Advisory Group on Policy,3 whose 
advice is summarised in our Policy report. 
 
These are intended to demonstrate broadly how the required changes might be 
delivered. They are not intended to be prescriptive where other means could 
achieve the same ends. 
 
 
The Government should set 
out an approach to ensure 
that progress stays on track. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
442 
b) Summary of policy recommendations 
 
Delivering the actions required in the 2020s to meet the Sixth Carbon Budget 
requires policies to be strengthened now. Matching strong ambition with action is 
vital for the UK’s credibility, with business and with the international community. 
Action in early years underpins the transition by developing options and driving 
learning-by-doing in key technologies. It keeps open the possibility that if faster 
progress proves possible, it can be taken in further support of the global 1.5°C goal. 
 
A vital challenge is to ensure that the transition is fair, and perceived to be fair. 
That was a key theme from the recent UK Climate Assembly, and it is clear that 
engaging and involving the public in the transition and in policy design will be vital. 
The Treasury Net Zero Review must identify fair ways to share the costs and benefits 
of the transition and the Government must develop effective plans for a just 
transition while embedding the principle of fairness throughout policy. Plans should 
recognise interactions with other transformations, such as digitalisation. Place and 
skills will be key dimensions to consider, so it is vital that UK Government policy joins 
up well with local, regional and devolved policy on the just transition. 
 
We identify priorities for every sector of the economy, building on our detailed 
recommendations in our Progress Report in June.  
• 
Surface transport. A comprehensive policy package will be needed to 
deliver on the Government’s new commitment to phase out new sales of 
petrol and diesel cars and vans by 2030, including ensuring that plug-in 
hybrids play no more than a niche role by then. A further commitment 
should be made to phase out sales of diesel HGVs by no later than 2040, 
supported by large-scale trials in the near term. Recharging and refuelling 
infrastructure will need to develop to meet the range of emerging needs. 
Effective demand-side policy is also essential – we identify significant 
opportunities, and advantages, to reducing travel demand, but this will not 
happen without firm policies.  
• 
Industry. For the manufacturing, construction and fuel supply industries, the 
Government must move from the current piecemeal approach to a 
comprehensive transition support framework. Taxpayer funding will be key 
in early years to ensure industries stay internationally competitive while 
reducing emissions. The development of longer-term policies, such as 
border tariff adjustments or carbon standards, should begin immediately, 
for example through development of improved measurement of carbon-
intensity. Policy must tackle both the demand-side and supply-side for low-
carbon products and ensure relevant infrastructure is available when 
needed. 
• 
Buildings. Government must produce a robust and ambitious Heat and 
Buildings strategy which sets the direction for the next decade, with clear 
signals on the phase-out of fossil heating, rebalancing of policy costs 
between electricity and gas, commitments to funding and delivery plans 
which include regional and local actors. Our Balanced Pathway is 
underpinned by a clear timetable for standards to make all buildings 
energy efficient and ultimately low-carbon. The other priorities are rapidly 
to scale up supply chains for heat pumps and heat networks and to 
develop the option of hydrogen for heat. Proper enforcement of standards 
and an effective approach to skills are essential.  
• 
Electricity generation. Low-risk instruments like the auctions of renewable 
contracts should continue to support the scale-up of low-carbon 
generating capacity.  
Only a just transition will be 
successful. 
Policy throughout the 
economy must be clear, 
effective and fair. 
443 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
Policy should address barriers to the major scale-up required, for example 
by supporting the coordination of connections from offshore windfarms into 
the onshore network and greatly strengthening the UK’s power grid. 
Following on from the 2024 coal phase-out, gas-fired power without CCS 
should be phased out by 2035. Work to improve markets for the provision of 
flexibility must accelerate to accommodate the increasing shares of 
variable power. 
• 
Low-carbon hydrogen. The Government’s Hydrogen Strategy is due to be 
published in spring 2021. It will need to set out a vision for hydrogen’s role in 
meeting Net Zero in the longer term, together with the actions, regulations 
and incentives across end-use applications and hydrogen supply to 
develop hydrogen’s role over the next decade.  
• 
Agriculture and land. We set out detailed recommendations on policy for 
land and agriculture in January 2020. These must be implemented in a way 
that is fair to farmers. The priorities remain: a strengthened regulatory 
baseline to ensure low-regret measures are adopted; incentive schemes 
such as auctioned contracts to drive afforestation; and enabling measures 
to address issues such as skills, supply chains and barriers for tenant farmers. 
Policy design must account for the challenges of the changing climate and 
reflect wider environmental priorities, including for biodiversity, to harness 
potential synergies and avoid unnecessary trade-offs. Demand-side policies 
are also needed to cut food waste and encourage a reduction in 
consumption of meat and dairy. 
• 
Aviation and shipping. The UK will need strategies to reduce its emissions 
from aviation and shipping to Net Zero. It should help drive international 
processes through the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the 
International Maritime Organisation to strengthen ambition in line with Net 
Zero. Policy should also provide early-stage development support for 
engineered CO2 removals, sustainable fuels and more efficient, including 
electrified, craft. Demand-side measures should aim to limit aviation growth 
in line with our scenarios. 
• 
Waste policy should include a ban on landfilling biodegradable waste by 
2025, with recycling increasing to 70% by 2030. More policies are needed to 
reduce waste arisings, through the chain from manufacturing to the 
consumer. All remaining energy-from-waste plants should fit CCS by 2050. 
• 
F-gases. F-gas regulation already requires reduction of some sources; plans 
will need to extend to all sources. 
• 
CO2 removal. A full strategy is needed for CO2 removal, covering both 
nature-based and engineered options. It should cover initial development 
and demonstration, governance arrangements to ensure sustainability and 
that removals are permanent, and market pricing mechanisms and other 
routes to market development to support the scale-up required from the 
late 2020s. 
 
Net Zero and the Sixth Carbon Budget present a major coordination and delivery 
challenge. The Government must organise itself and its agencies to meet that 
challenge. The two Cabinet Committees for Climate Action – the Strategy 
Committee chaired by the Prime Minister and the Implementation Committee 
chaired by the BEIS Secretary of State – are an important element of that, but 
stronger governance and coordination will be needed, with delivery processes 
reaching out across all levels and localities of Government, across borders, and 
across UK businesses and people.  
 
Government must organise at 
all levels to meet the major 
delivery challenge of Net Zero. 
Aviation and shipping should 
be included in the Sixth 
Carbon Budget and must be 
tackled alongside all other 
emissions. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
444 
The Committee will continue to offer its support to developing the Government’s 
policy programme, and those of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and will 
scrutinise proposals carefully and transparently.  
 
c) The evolving role of the CCC 
 
Following this advice, the Committee’s main role will switch from advising on 
climate targets (as we have in this report and the Net Zero report in 2019) to 
monitoring progress towards Net Zero and the targets set on the path to it. That will 
begin with the Committee’s annual Progress Report to Parliament in June 2021. 
 
i) Monitoring progress towards Net Zero 
 
As in previous Progress Reports, we expect to monitor with a forward-looking 
perspective, aiming to identify potential shortcomings before they occur. To do 
that we will develop a new set of progress indicators based on the Balanced Net 
Zero Pathway set out in this report and against which we will track progress in each 
sector of the economy. There may be some areas where progress is faster, and 
some where it is slower, but those must balance out across the economy if the 
budget is to be delivered. Currently expected progress is well below what is 
needed in almost all areas. 
 
For progress to be on track, effective policies must be implemented on a timely 
basis. In monitoring development of policy in each sector we will consider the 
following questions: 
• 
Is there a clear long-term direction? 
• 
Are there investable incentives for low-carbon options? 
• 
Are barriers to action being tackled? 
• 
Is policy preparing for future challenges as well as current ones? 
• 
Is policy addressing the particular issues for that sector, for example fuel 
poverty or competitiveness? 
 
More broadly we will also assess the Government’s progress on tackling the overall 
Net Zero challenge. That will involve a particular focus on fairness and the just 
transition (including the results of the Treasury’s Net Zero Review into how the costs 
and the benefits should be share), success in engaging and involving people 
across the UK, regional implementation and the Government’s approach to 
delivery. 
 
Given the increasing importance of climate commitments and action by 
businesses, including the financial sector, and local Government we will seek to 
extend our assessment into action by players beyond central and devolved 
Government. And as the UK hosts COP26, we will seek to support efforts to increase 
ambition globally and increase our international engagement. 
 
The Committee will now switch 
back towards a focus on 
delivery. 
445 
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
ii) Monitoring consumption emissions 
 
In Chapter 7 we set out a range of scenarios for the UK’s consumption emissions 
based on the Balanced Net Zero Pathway for territorial emissions and different 
levels of emissions reduction in the rest of the world. As set out in Chapter 7, there 
are levers available to the UK to influence these emissions and we noted that 
around 75% of the UK’s consumption emissions are, or soon will be, covered by Net 
Zero targets, while 45% of imported emissions are in the supply chains of UK firms. 
 
We do not recommend that the UK set a legal target for consumption emissions 
comparable to carbon budgets at this time: 
• 
Territorial emissions remain the agreed international approach to setting 
emissions targets and map most closely to UK levers of influence. 
• 
Estimates of consumption emissions are considerably more uncertain and 
only available with a significant lag (the latest current estimates are for 
2017). Estimates are more prone to changing with changes in assumptions 
or as a result of changes that do not reflect UK policy. 
 
However, there are strong arguments in favour of monitoring consumption 
emissions and considering policies to address imported as well as territorial 
emissions: 
• 
The UK’s consumption emissions are estimated to be around 50% higher 
than its territorial emissions. 
• 
Poor policy could lead to imported emissions increasing while territorial 
emissions fall, especially as the UK strengthens policy targeting sectors 
producing traded goods (e.g. manufacturing and agriculture). The carbon 
budgets should not be met by exporting our emissions and shutting down 
our industries. 
• 
The UK does have levers to affect imported emissions as well as territorial 
emissions (see Chapter 7). Some of these and other levers could even 
extend beyond the UK’s consumption emissions and help to encourage 
reductions in emissions outside the UK that are not imported to the UK. 
• 
Consumption emissions are recognised internationally. Demonstrating that 
the UK is considering them and taking action to reduce them can 
strengthen the UK’s credibility internationally and ability to encourage 
others to adopt high ambition. 
 
We therefore propose to track consumption emissions as a regular part of our 
progress monitoring in future. We set out an illustrative Paris-aligned trajectory in 
Chapter 7. If UK territorial emissions are reduced to Net Zero and UK trading 
partners reduce their emissions in line with the Paris Agreement, we estimate that 
UK consumption emissions would be around 90% below 1990 levels in 2050. 
 
We will further develop our analysis of consumption emissions with a view to 
developing indicators to provide more timely assessments of progress and to 
consider policies to address imported emissions (e.g. in trade agreements and 
supply chains). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We do not recommend that 
the UK set a legal target for 
consumption emissions at this 
time. 
We will track consumption 
emissions against a Paris-
aligned trajectory. 
Chapter 10: Recommendations on the Sixth Carbon Budget 
446 
1 House of Commons Hansard (12 June 2019) Net Zero Emissions Target, Volume 661, Columns 673 
and 682. 
2 HMG (2020) The future of carbon pricing 
3 CCC Expert Advisory Group report on cross-cutting policy: Sensitive Intervention Points to 
achieve net-zero emissions published on the CCC website 
 
 
447
Sixth Carbon Budget – The path to Net Zero 
This page is left intentionally blank.
www.theccc.org.uk
@theCCCuk
December 2020
The Sixth Carbon Budget
The UK's path to Net Zero
Climate Change Committee
151 Buckingham Palace Road London
SW1W 9SW
