 
 
The Millbrook Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices – Volume 
C Appendices 2.6 – 2.14 Legislation and Policy 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010068 
Document Reference: 
 
 
6.2 
Regulation Number: 
5(2)(a) & Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
October 2017 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
Contents – Volume C – Legislation and Policy Context 
2.6 – Air Quality 
2.7 – Noise and Vibration 
2.8 – Ecology 
2.9 – Water Quality and Resources 
2.10 – Ground Conditions 
2.11 – Landscape and Visual Impact 
2.12 – Traffic and Transport 
2.13 – Archaeology and Cultural Heritage 
2.14 – Socio-economics 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
1 
Legislation and Policy Context 
 
Appendix 2 provides the overarching environmental policy and guidance 
relating to the Project.  
 
The numbering of each section corresponds with the numbering for the 
technical chapters i.e. Section 2.6 below corresponds with Chapter 6 Air 
Quality, Section 2.7 corresponds with Chapter 7 Noise and Vibration etc. 
2.6  
Air Quality 
The Air Quality Strategy 
2.6.1 
The Air Quality Strategy (2007) establishes the policy framework for ambient 
air quality management and assessment in the UK. The primary objective is 
to ensure that everyone can enjoy a level of ambient air quality which poses 
no significant risk to health or quality of life. The Strategy sets out the National 
Air Quality Objectives (NAQOs) and Government policy on achieving these 
objectives. 
2.6.2 
The relevant NAQOs for Local Air Quality Management (LAQM) are 
prescribed in the Air Quality (England) Regulations 2000 and the Air Quality 
(Amendment) (England) Regulations 2002. The objectives for the protection 
of human health are summarised, as appropriate to the Project, in Table 2-
6.1. 
Table 2.6.1: Air Quality Objectives for the protection of human health 
Pollutant 
Averaging 
Period 
Objective 
(µg/m3) 
Number of permitted 
exceedences 
Nitrogen Dioxide 
(NO2) 
1 hour 
200 
18 
Annual 
40 
- 
Carbon 
Monoxide 
8-hour rolling 
10,000 
- 
 
2.6.3 
Where an objective is unlikely to be met, the local authority must designate 
an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and draw up an Air Quality Action 
Plan (AQAP) setting out the measures it intends to introduce in pursuit of the 
objectives within its AQMA. 
2.6.4 
The Local Air Quality Management Technical Guidance 2009 (LAQM.TG(09); 
Defra, 2009) issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
2 
Affairs (Defra) for Local Authorities provides advice as to where the NAQOs 
apply. These include outdoor locations where members of the public are likely 
to be regularly present for the averaging period of the objective (which vary 
from 15 minutes to a year). Thus, for example, annual mean objectives apply 
at the façades of residential properties, whilst the 24-hour objective (for PM10) 
would also apply within the garden. They do not apply to occupational, indoor 
or in-vehicle exposure. 
EU Limit Values 
2.6.5 
The Air Quality Standards Regulations 2010 implements the European 
Union’s Directive on ambient air quality and cleaner air for Europe 
(2008/50/EC), and includes limit values for NO2. These limit values are 
numerically the same as the NAQO values but differ in terms of compliance 
dates, locations where they apply and the legal responsibility for ensuring 
that they are complied with. The compliance date for the NO2 EU Limit Value 
was 1 January 2010, five years later than the date for the NAQO.  
2.6.6 
Directive 2008/50/EC consolidated the previous framework directive on 
ambient air quality assessment and management and its first three daughter 
directives. The limit values remained unchanged, but it now allows Member 
States a time extension for compliance, subject to European Commission 
(EC) approval. Despite many areas of the UK not being compliant with the 
annual average NO2 limit value, the UK has decided not to seek an extension 
to the compliance date for this pollutant. This was on the basis that it could 
not be guaranteed that the UK would be compliant by the latest date 
allowable under the Directive (1 January 2015). 
2.6.7 
The Directive limit values are applicable at all locations except: 
 
Where members of the public do not have access and there is no fixed 
habitation;  
 
On factory premises or at industrial installations to which all relevant 
provisions concerning health and safety at work apply; and 
 
On the carriageway of roads; and on the central reservations of roads 
except where there is normally pedestrian access.  
2.6.8 
The National Emissions Ceilings Directive (2001/81/EC) sets limits on total 
annual emissions of important air pollutants for all Member States to help 
reduce transboundary air pollution.  
Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) 
2.6.9 
Directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention 
and control) (IED) recast seven directives related to industrial emissions, in 
particular Directive 2008/1/EC of 15 January 2008 concerning integrated 
pollution prevention and control (the Integrated Pollution Prevention and 
Control (IPPC) Directive) and Directive 2001/80/EC of 23 October 2001 on 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
3 
the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large 
combustion plants (the Large Combustion Plant Directive (LCPD)), into a 
single legislative instrument to improve the permitting, compliance and 
enforcement regimes adopted by Member States. 
2.6.10 
The IPPC Directive laid down measures to prevent or, where that is not 
practicable, to reduce emissions in the air, water and land introducing ELVs 
and BAT. The LCPD prescribed ELVs for NOx, SO2 and PM10. 
2.6.11 
The EID makes provisions for the continuation of the requirements and 
principles of the IPPC Directive and the LCPD and introduces new, more 
stringent, ELVs with full compliance required by 1 January 2016. 
2.6.12 
The LCPD and IPPC Directives are implemented in England and Wales by 
the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010 (the EP 
Regulations). 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010 
2.6.13 
The Environment Agency will control and regulate the Generating Equipment 
with respect to the emissions to air from the stacks via an Environmental 
Permit that will be required for the Generating Equipment. The Environmental 
Permit will include specific ELVs to apply to the Generating Equipment for the 
relevant pollutants considered within the IED. Such limits will be based on the 
associated emissions levels (AEL) of recognised BAT as per current EA 
guidance notes and the existing EU IPPC ‘Reference Document on Best 
Available Techniques for Large Combustion Plant’ (2006) and the draft 
update of this document, ‘Best Available Techniques Reference Documents 
for the Large Combustion Plants’ (2013) (together, “BREF Notes”). 
The Habitats Directive 
2.6.14 
The European Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC) sets out the legal framework 
requiring EU member states to protect habitat sites supporting vulnerable and 
protected species, as listed within the Directive. This Directive is transposed 
into UK law by the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 
(as amended) and requires protection of ecological sites including Special 
Areas of Conservation (SACs) and Special Protection Areas (SPAs). 
2.6.15 
Across the UK, site-specific critical levels (which relate to airborne pollutant 
concentrations at ground level) and critical loads (which relate to deposition 
of materials to soils) have been set for a variety of protected habitats and 
species in order to allow the quantitative assessment of the condition of 
ecologically sensitive sites and thus the protection of such sites by the 
relevant competent authorities. 
The Ambient Air Quality Directive 
2.6.16 
The Ambient Air Quality Directive sets ambient air quality guidelines for NOx 
for the protection of ecosystems.  This imposes a long-term (annual average) 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
4 
limit for NOx of 30 µg/m3 (critical level). In terms of the limit for the protection 
of ecosystems, it is important to define the areas in which the limit is to be 
achieved. Directive 2008/50/EC states that sampling points to determine 
concentrations should be: 
 
20 km from an agglomeration (which is defined as an area with a 
population of more than 250,000); or 
 
At least 5 km from other built-up areas, industrial installations or 
motorways or major roads with traffic counts of more than 50,000 
vehicles per day; 
 
Representative of air quality in a surrounding area of at least 1,000 
km2. 
2.6.17 
This is mirrored in the Air Quality Standards Regulations 2010. 
The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 
2.6.18 
Improved provisions for the protection and management of SSSIs (in England 
and Wales) were introduced by the Countryside and Rights of Way (CROW) 
Act 2000. If a development is “likely to damage” a SSSI, the CROW act 
requires that a relevant conservation body (i.e. Natural England) is consulted. 
The CROW act also provides protection to local nature conservation sites, 
which can be particularly important in providing ‘stepping stones’ or ‘buffers’ 
to SSSIs and European sites. In addition, the Environment Act (1995) and 
the Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act (2006) both require the 
conservation of biodiversity. 
National Policy Statements 
2.6.19 
NPS EN-1 explains the generic air emissions impacts with regard to energy 
infrastructure. Specific considerations for fossil fuel generating stations are 
provided in the NPS for Fossil Fuel Generating Infrastructure (EN-2). The 
NPSs for Gas and Oil Pipelines (EN-4) and Electricity Networks Infrastructure 
(EN-5) provide specific considerations potentially relevant to the Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection respectively. 
Other National and Local Policy 
2.6.20 
Whilst the PA 2008 is clear as to the primacy of the relevant NPS, other 
national and local planning policy may be considered important and relevant 
by the SoS in the determination of an energy NSIP. 
2.6.21 
The NPPF states (paragraph 7) that the planning system should perform a 
number of roles in delivering sustainable development including an 
environmental role “contributing to protecting and enhancing our natural, built 
and historic environment; and, as part of this, helping to improve biodiversity, 
use natural resources prudently, minimise waste and pollution, and mitigate 
and adapt to climate change including moving to a low carbon economy.” 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
5 
2.6.22 
The Bedford Borough Council Core and Rural Issues Plan (2021)1 aims to 
promote and guide sustainability practices at the borough. 
2.6.23 
The Policy CP26 Climate Change and Pollution states that:  
“The Council will require development to:  
 
Minimise the emissions of pollutants into the wider environment; and 
 
Have regard to cumulative impacts of development proposals on air 
quality, in particular to relation to air quality management areas.” 
2.6.24 
The Bedford Borough Council Air Quality Action Plan 20072 (amended as of 
July 2008) sets out the actions that the Council is taking and intending to take 
to improve the air quality in the borough. This Action plan builds upon 
previous polices namely the Corporate Plan, the Community Plan and the 
Local Development Framework. The measures include improvement to the 
road network and traffic management; reduce road congestion, especially in 
areas near declared AQMAs and reducing emissions from non-transport 
related sources, among others.  
2.6.25 
The Development Strategy for Central Bedfordshire 20143 builds upon The 
Local Plan adopted in 2004. It establishes the policy framework for new 
developments in the District. 
2.6.26 
The “Policy 44 Protection from the Environmental Pollution” stipulates that: 
“Development proposals which are likely to cause, pollution or are likely to be 
exposed to potential unacceptable levels of pollution or land instability 
sources of pollution will not be permitted unless it can be demonstrated that 
measures can be implemented to minimise impacts to a satisfactory level 
which protects health, environmental quality and amenity” 
2.6.26 
The air quality assessment has been undertaken with regard to the 
following guidance documents: 
 
 
Local Air Quality Management Technical Guidance LAQM TG(09) 
(Defra, 2009), including supplementary guidance published by Defra 
through its website;  
 
DMRB Volume 11 Section 3 Part 1, Air Quality (HA207/07); 
                                                      
1 Available at: http://www.bedford.gov.uk/environment_and_planning.aspx 
2 Available at: http://www.hertsbedsair.net/ 
3 Available at:  
http://www.centralbedfordshire.gov.uk/Images/DS%20PUBLICATION%20FINAL_260614_FOR%20WEB_tcm6- 
55496.pdf 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
Environment Agency Horizontal Guidance H1 Environmental Risk 
Assessment, Annex F (Emissions to Air); 
 
Institute for Air Quality Management (IAQM) Guidance on the 
assessment of construction impacts, 2011. 
2.7 
Noise and Vibration 
Noise Policy Statement for England (NPSE) (March 2010) 
2.7.1 
The Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs published the Noise 
Policy Statement for England (NPSE) in March 2010.  
2.7.2 
There are three aims in the NPSE 
1. Avoid significant adverse impacts on health and quality of life from 
environmental, neighbour and neighbourhood noise within the 
context of Government policy on sustainable development. 
The first aim of the NPSE requires that significant adverse effects on health 
and quality of life should be avoided whilst taking into account the guiding 
principles of sustainable development.  
2. Mitigate and minimise adverse impacts on health and quality of life 
from environmental, neighbour and neighbourhood noise within the 
context of Government policy on sustainable development.  
The second aim of the NPSE requires that all reasonable steps should be 
taken to mitigate and minimise adverse effects on health and quality of life 
whilst also taking into account the guiding principles of sustainable 
development. This does not mean that such adverse effects cannot occur.  
3. Where possible, contribute to the improvement of health and quality 
of life through the effective management and control of 
environmental, neighbour and neighbourhood noise within the 
context of Government policy on sustainable development.  
This aim states “through the pro-active management of noise while also 
taking into account the guiding principles of sustainable development, 
recognising that there will be opportunities for such measures to be taken 
and that they will deliver potential benefits to society. The protection of 
quiet places and quiet times as well as the enhancement of the acoustic 
environment will assist with delivering this aim.” 
2.7.3 
The explanatory note of NPSE provides further explanation as follows: 
 
“There are two established concepts from toxicology that are currently being 
applied to noise impacts, for example, by the World Health Organisation. 
They are:  
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
NOEL – No Observed Effect Level  
 
This is the level below which no effect can be detected. In simple terms, 
below this level, there is no detectable effect on health and quality of life due 
to the noise.  
 
LOAEL – Lowest Observed Adverse Effect Level  
 
This is the level above which adverse effects on health and quality of life can 
be detected.  
 
Extending these concepts for the purpose of this NPSE leads to the concept 
of a significant observed adverse effect level.  
 
SOAEL – Significant Observed Adverse Effect Level  
 
This is the level above which significant adverse effects on health and quality 
of life occur.”  
2.7.4 
The NPSE does not define the SOAEL numerically, stating at Paragraph 
2.22: 
 
“It is not possible to have a single objective noise-based measure that defines 
SOAEL that is applicable to all sources of noise in all situations. 
Consequently, the SOAEL is likely to be different for different noise sources, 
for different receptors and at different times. It is acknowledged that further 
research is required to increase our understanding of what may constitute a 
significant adverse impact on health and quality of life from noise. However, 
not having specific SOAEL values in the NPSE provides the necessary policy 
flexibility until further evidence and suitable guidance is available.” 
NPS EN-1 ‘Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy’ (July 
2011) 
2.7.5 
The Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) issued by 
the Department for Energy and Climate Change sets out national policy with 
respect to energy infrastructure. 
2.7.6 
Section 5.11 of NPS EN-1 sets out the requirements for assessing and 
mitigating noise and vibration from nationally significant infrastructure 
projects (NSIPs) in the energy sector. It also sets out the approach the 
Secretary of State (SoS) should adopt when considering noise assessments. 
2.7.7 
It advises that operational noise from a proposed development and the 
proximity to noise sensitive receptor; quiet areas or sites designated for 
ecological reasons are likely to determine the impact of noise. 
2.7.8 
Where noise impacts are likely, a noise assessment should be undertaken in 
line with details listed in the NPS.   
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
8 
2.7.9 
Noise and vibration should be assessed using relevant British Standards 
(e.g. BS 4142, BS 6472, BS 8233 and BS 5228) and other guidance, 
including the other NPS’. 
2.7.10 
NPS EN-1 advises the IPC that the project should: 
2.7.11 
“Demonstrate good design through selection of the quietest cost-effective 
plant available; containment of noise within buildings wherever possible; 
optimisation of plant layout to minimise noise emissions; and, where possible, 
the use of landscaping, bunds or noise barriers to reduce noise transmission.” 
2.7.12 
The proposal should meet the following aims before the IPC grants consent: 
 
“Avoid significant impacts on health and quality of life from noise, 
 
Mitigate and minimise other adverse impacts on health and quality of 
life from noise, 
 
Where possible, contribute to improvements to health and quality of 
life through the effective management and control of noise.” 
The National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) (March 2012) 
2.7.13 
The Department for Communities and Local Government published the 
National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) on 27 March 2012 and upon its 
publication, the majority of planning policy statements and guidance notes 
were withdrawn. 
2.7.14 
The NPPF states that it does not contain specific policies for NSIP’s, however 
it does state that “These are determined in accordance with the decision-
making framework set out in the Planning Act 2008 and relevant national 
policy statements for major infrastructure, as well as any other matters that 
are considered both important and relevant (which may include the National 
Planning Policy Framework). National policy statements form part of the 
overall framework of national planning policy, and are material considerations 
in decisions on planning applications.” 
2.7.15 
Therefore, for matters that the Government consider important, decisions on 
NSIPs may include reference to the NPPF. In addition, the NPPF requires 
that local planning authorities should work with other authorities and 
providers to take account of the need for strategic infrastructure, including 
nationally significant infrastructure within their areas. 
2.7.16 
The NPPF contains four aims, which are set out at Paragraph 123 in Section 
11 of the document, titled ‘Conserving and enhancing the natural 
environment’: 
 “Planning policies and decisions should aim to: 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
Avoid noise from giving rise to significant adverse impacts on health 
and quality of life as a result of new development; 
 
Mitigate and reduce to a minimum other adverse impacts on health 
and quality of life arising from noise from new development, including 
through the use of conditions;  
 
Recognise that development will often create some noise and existing 
businesses wanting to develop in continuance of their business should 
not have unreasonable restrictions put on them because of changes 
in nearby land uses since they were established; and  
 
Identify and protect areas of tranquillity which have remained relatively 
undisturbed by noise and are prized for their recreational and amenity 
value for this reason.” 
2.7.17 
There are two footnotes to the above guidance. The first footnote refers to 
the Explanatory Note of the Noise Policy Statement for England, which 
defines both “significant adverse impacts on health and quality of life” and 
“adverse impacts on health and quality of life” as described in the first two 
bullet points.  
2.7.18 
The second footnote indicates that the third bullet point is “subject to the 
provisions of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 and other relevant law”.  
Planning Practice Guidance 
2.7.19 
The National Planning Policy Guidance (PPG) was published on 6 March 
2014. It states that the guidance relating to noise provides answers to a 
number of questions and reiterates the guidance within the NPSE. It states 
that “noise needs to be considered when new developments may create 
additional noise and when new developments would be sensitive to the 
prevailing acoustic environment”. 
2.7.20 
The PPG provides advice regarding how to determine the impact of noise, 
including whether or not a significant adverse effect or adverse effect “is 
occurring or likely to occur” and whether or not a “good standard of amenity 
can be achieved”. 
2.7.21 
It provides more descriptive detail for the definitions of NOEL, LOAEL and 
SOAEL than the NPSE, but refrains from using numerical values. A summary 
of the advice given is reproduced as Table 7.1. 
Table 7.1: Noise Exposure Hierarchy 
Perception 
Examples of Outcomes 
Increasing 
Effect Level 
Action 
Not noticeable 
No effect 
No observed 
effect 
No specific 
measures 
required 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
10 
Perception 
Examples of Outcomes 
Increasing 
Effect Level 
Action 
Noticeable and 
not intrusive 
Noise can be heard, but does 
not cause any change in 
behaviour or attitude. Can 
slightly affect the acoustic 
character of the area but not 
such that there is a perceived 
change in the quality of life. 
No observed 
adverse effect 
No specific 
measures 
required 
 
 
Lowest 
observed 
adverse effect 
level 
 
Noticeable and 
intrusive 
Noise can be heard and causes 
small changes in behaviour 
and/or attitude, e.g. turning up 
volume of television; speaking 
more loudly; closing windows 
for some of the time because of 
the noise. Potential for non-
awakening sleep disturbance. 
Affects the acoustic character 
of the area such that there is a 
perceived change in the quality 
of life. 
Observed 
adverse effect 
Mitigate and 
reduce to a 
minimum 
 
 
Significant 
observed 
adverse effect 
level 
 
Noticeable and 
disruptive 
The noise causes a material 
change in behaviour and/or 
attitude, e.g. having to keep 
windows closed most of the 
time, avoiding certain activities 
during periods of intrusion. 
Potential for sleep disturbance 
resulting in difficulty in getting 
back to sleep. Quality of life 
diminished due to change in 
acoustic character of the area.  
Significant 
observed 
adverse effect 
Avoid 
Noticeable and 
very disruptive 
Extensive and regular changes 
in behaviour and/or an inability 
to mitigate effect of noise 
leading to psychological stress 
or physiological effects, e.g. 
regular sleep 
deprivation/awakening; loss of 
appetite, significant, medically 
definable harm, e.g. auditory 
and non-auditory 
Unacceptable 
adverse effect 
Prevent 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
11 
2.7.22 
The PPG also provides guidance regarding what factors influence whether 
noise could be a concern, including: 
 
Source and absolute level of the noise 
 
Time of day 
 
Number and pattern of noise events (for non-continuous sound) 
 
Frequency content of the noise 
 
General character (“i.e. whether or not the noise contains particular 
tonal characteristics or other particular features”), and 
 
Local topology and topography. 
2.7.23 
Additionally, “when relevant”: 
 
The cumulative impact of multiple sources along with the extent to 
which the noise source is intermittent and of limited duration 
 
The provision of alternative ventilation if proposed mitigation relies on 
closed windows most of the time 
 
Noise Action Plans and Important Areas (as defined in the 
Environmental Noise Directive) should be taken into account 
 
The acoustic environment of external amenity space (if it is an intrinsic 
part of the design) should be considered, so they can be enjoyed as 
intended 
 
Increased potential of impact from fast food restaurants, night clubs 
and public houses, not only noise generated from within the premises 
but also the noise that may be made by customers within the vicinity. 
2.7.24 
The guidance provides advice on how the adverse effects of noise can be 
mitigated. It advises that this will depend on “the type of development being 
considered and the character of the proposed location”. Four broad 
classifications of mitigation are defined. These include: 
 
Engineering methods: Reducing the noise generated at source and/or 
containing the noise generated; 
 
Layout: Optimising the distance between the source and noise-
sensitive receptors and/or incorporating good design to minimise noise 
transmission through the use of screening (by natural or purpose built 
barriers, or other buildings); 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Use of planning conditions/obligations: Restricting activities allowed 
onsite at certain times and/or specifying permissible noise levels for 
different time periods (e.g. daytime, evening and night-time), and; 
 
Mitigating: the impact on areas likely to be affected by noise including 
through noise insulation when the impact is on a building. 
2.7.25 
Furthermore, it advises that the impact of the noise may be “partially off-set 
if the residents of those dwellings have access to: 
 
A relatively quiet façade (containing windows to habitable rooms) as 
part of their dwelling and/or; 
 
A relatively quiet external amenity space for their sole use, (e.g. a 
garden or balcony). Although the existence of a garden or balcony is 
generally desirable, the intended benefits will be reduced with 
increasing noise exposure and could be such that significant adverse 
effects occur and/or; 
 
A relatively quiet, protected, nearby external amenity space for sole 
use by a limited group of residents as part of the amenity of their 
dwellings, and/or; 
 
A relative quiet, protected, external publically accessible amenity 
space (e.g. a public park or a local green space designated because 
of its tranquillity) that is nearby (e.g. within a 5 minutes walking 
distance)”. 
BS 4142:2014 Methods for rating and assessing industrial and 
commercial sound (October 2014) 
2.7.26 
British Standard 4142: 2014 “Methods for rating and assessing industrial and 
commercial sound” (BS4142) describes methods for rating and assessing 
sound of an industrial and/or commercial nature. The methods described in 
the standard use outdoor sound levels to assess the likely effects of sound 
on people who might be inside or outside a dwelling or premises used for 
residential purposes upon which sound is incident.  
2.7.27 
The standard is used to determine the rating levels for sources of sound of 
an industrial and/or commercial nature and the ambient, background and 
residual sound levels at outdoor locations. These levels can be used for the 
purposes of assessing sound from proposed source(s) of sound of an 
industrial and/or commercial nature. However, the determination of noise 
amounting to a nuisance is beyond the scope of the standard. 
2.7.28 
The standard should not be used to assess sound from the passage of 
vehicles on public roads and railway systems; recreational activities; music 
and other entertainment; shooting grounds; construction and demolition; 
domestic animals; people; public address systems for speech and other 
sources falling within the scopes of other standards or guidance. The 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
13 
standard cannot be applied to the derivation of indoor sound levels arising 
from sound levels outside, or the assessment of indoor sound levels. 
2.7.29 
The procedure contained in BS4142 assesses the significance of sound 
which depends upon the margin by which the rating level of the specific sound 
sources exceeds the background sound level and the context in which the 
sound occurs/will occur.  
2.7.30 
An initial estimate of the impact of the specific sound is obtained by 
subtracting the measured background sound level from the rating level and 
considering the following: 
 
Typically, the greater this difference, the greater the magnitude of the 
impact. 
 
A difference of around +10 dB or more is likely to be an indication of a 
significant adverse impact, depending on the context. 
 
A difference of around +5 dB is likely to be an indication of an adverse 
impact, depending on the context.  
 
The lower the rating level is relative to the measured background 
sound level, the less likely it is that the specific sound source will have 
an adverse impact or a significant adverse impact. Where the rating 
level does not exceed the background sound level, this is an indication 
of the specific sound source having a low impact, depending on the 
context.  
2.7.31 
Where the initial estimate of the impact needs to be modified due to the 
context, the following factors should be considered:  
 
The absolute level of sound. 
 
The character and level of the residual sound compared to the 
character and level of the specific sound.  
 
The sensitivity of the receptor and whether dwellings or other premises 
used for residential purposes will already incorporate design measures 
that secure good internal and/or outdoor acoustic conditions such as: 
o Façade insulation treatment; 
o Ventilation and/or cooling that will reduce the need to have 
windows open so as to provide rapid or purge ventilation; and 
o Acoustic screening. 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
14 
BS 5228-1:2009+A1:2014 Code of practice for noise and vibration 
control on construction and open sites Part 1 Noise, (February 2014) 
2.7.32 
BS 5228-1 does not provide limits for construction nose. The standard 
provides a ‘best practice guide’ for noise control and includes sound power 
level (Lw) data for individual plant as well as a calculation method for the 
prediction of noise from construction activities.  
BS 5228-2:2009+A1:2014 Code of practice for noise and vibration 
control on construction and open sites Part 2 Vibration, (June 2014) 
2.7.33 
BS 5228-2 provides advice on the human response to construction vibration. 
BS 5228-2 suggests that, for construction activities, it is considered more 
appropriate to provide guidance in terms of the peak particle velocity (PPV) 
as measured outside of the building. This parameter is likely to be more 
routinely measured based upon the more usual concerns over potential 
building damage.  
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
15 
2.8 
Ecology 
Legislation 
 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (as amended) 
2.8.1 
In the UK, Council Directive 92/43/EEC on the Conservation of Natural 
Habitats and Wild Fauna and Flora (‘the Habitats Directive’), was originally 
transposed into law by means of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, & c.) 
Regulations 1994 (as amended). The Regulations came into force on 30 
October 1994, and have been amended several times. Subsequently the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 was created which 
consolidates all the various amendments made to the 1994 Regulations in 
respect of England and Wales and is commonly known as the 'The Habitats 
Regulations'. The Habitats Regulations contain five Parts and four 
Schedules, and provide for the designation and protection of 'European sites', 
the protection of 'European protected species', and the adaptation of planning 
and other controls for the protection of European Sites. 
 
 
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
2.8.2 
The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) (WCA) is the principal 
mechanism for the legislative protection of wildlife in Great Britain. However, 
it does not extend to Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man. 
This legislation is the means by which the Convention on the Conservation 
of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats (Bern Convention) and (partially) 
the European Union Directives on the Conservation of Wild Birds 
(79/409/EEC) and Habitats Directive are implemented in the UK. 
 
 
The Natural Environmental and Rural Communities Act 2006 
2.8.3 
The Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act (NERC Act) provides 
that any public body or statutory undertaker in England and Wales must have 
regard to the purpose of conservation of biological diversity in the exercise of 
their functions. The intention is to help ensure that biodiversity becomes an 
integral consideration in the development of policies and plans.  
National Policy Context 
 
National Policy Statement for Energy EN-1  
2.8.4 
Section 4.3 of NPS EN-1 refers to the Conservation of Habitats and Species 
Regulations 2010 and the requirement to consider whether a project is likely 
to have a significant effect on a European site either alone or in combination 
with other plans or projects. Section 4.18 sets out more general 
considerations in relation to Biodiversity and Geological Conservation. These 
largely mirror the existing objectives set out in Planning Policy Statement 9 
and seek to avoid significant harm to biodiversity interests, including through 
mitigation, consideration of reasonable alternatives and, where harm cannot 
be avoided, through appropriate compensation measures. Guidance is also 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
16 
provided in relation to mitigation, in particular in order to minimise the impacts 
of construction activities and promote measures that will enhance biodiversity 
during operational phases of development. 
 
National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and 
Oil Pipelines (EN-4) 
2.8.5 
This NPS, taken together with the NPS EN-1, provides the primary basis for 
decisions by the IPC on applications it receives for gas supply infrastructure 
and gas and oil pipelines. This NPS is concerned with impacts and other 
matters which are specific to gas supply infrastructure and oil and gas 
pipelines or where, although the impact is generic and covered in EN-1, there 
are further specific considerations arising from the technologies covered 
here. 
 
 
National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks Infrastructure (EN-
5) 
2.8.6 
This NPS, taken together with the NPS EN-1, provides the primary basis for 
decisions by the IPC on applications it receives for electricity networks 
infrastructure. This NPS is concerned with impacts and other matters which 
are specific to electricity networks infrastructure or where, although the 
impact or issue is generic and covered in EN-1, there are further specific 
considerations arising from this technology. 
 
Consideration of Regulation 5(2) (l) of the Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedures) Regulations 2009 
2.8.7 
Regulation 5(2) (l) of the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed 
Forms and Procedures) Regulations 2009 (hereafter referred to as the 
‘APFP Regulations 2009’) requires an assessment to be made of “any 
effects” on Natural Features. 
 
The Protection of Badgers Act 1992 
2.8.8 
The Protection of Badgers Act 1992 makes it an offence to wilfully take, kill, 
injure or ill-treat a badger, or posses a dead badger or any part of a badger. 
Under the Act their setts are also protected against obstruction, destruction, 
or damage in any part. 
 
2.8.9 
Sett interference includes damaging or destroying a sett, obstructing access 
to a sett, and disturbing a badger whilst it is occupying a sett. The Act 
defines a badger sett as ‘any structure or place, which displays signs 
indicating the current use by a badger’ and Natural England takes this 
definition to include seasonally used setts. 
 
2.8.10 
Work that may disturb badgers or their setts is illegal without a development 
licence from the relevant statutory body (in this case Natural England).  
The Hedgerow Regulations 1997 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
17 
2.8.11 
The Hedgerows Regulations (1997) make provision for the protection of 
important hedgerows in England and Wales. The regulations affect 
hedgerows which are 20m or more in length, or connected at both ends to 
another hedgerow of any length. 
 
2.8.12 
They relate to hedgerows which are on, or adjoining land used for the 
following purposes: agriculture or forestry; the breeding or keeping of horses, 
ponies or donkeys; common land; village greens; Sites of Special Scientific 
Interest (SSSIs) (which include all terrestrial Special Areas of Conservations 
(SACs), National Nature reserves (NNRs), and Special Protection Areas 
(SPAs)) and Local Nature Reserves (LNRs). They do not include hedges that 
are attached to, or marking the boundaries of a private house. 
 
2.8.13 
It is an offence to intentionally or recklessly remove or cause or permit 
another person to remove a hedgerow or intentionally or recklessly remove, 
or cause or permit another person to remove, a hedgerow which is the subject 
of a hedgerow retention notice 
Local Planning Policy Context 
 
Bedford Borough, Central Bedfordshire and Luton Borough Councils: 
Minerals and Waste Local Plan Strategic Sites and Policies (adopted 
January 2014) 
2.8.14 
Section 6.0 of the Bedfordshire and Luton Minerals and Waste Local Plan 
First Review 2005 relates to General and Environmental Policies. 
 
2.8.15 
Policy GE10 Protection/enhancement of trees and woodland: proposals 
should seek to retain and, where appropriate, increase overall tree and 
hedgerow cover. The MPA / WPA will only grant planning permission for 
development that would result in harm to trees and woodland which are of 
amenity and/or wildlife value where such harm is reduced as far as 
practicable and is outweighed by other planning benefits of the proposal. 
 
2.8.16 
GE11 Protection of Sites of Nature Conservation Importance: the MPA / WPA 
will refuse planning permission for minerals or waste proposals that would 
result in harm to designated or proposed Sites of Special Scientific Interest 
(SSSI) or National Nature Reserves (NNR), unless the reasons for the 
development clearly outweigh the nature conservation value of the site and 
the national policy to safeguard such sites. Where such development is 
permitted, measures will be required to mitigate or compensate for the effects 
of the development. 
 
2.8.17 
GE12 Protection of locally designated nature conservation sites, regionally 
important geological/geomorphological sites (RIGS) and undesignated sites 
of significant conservation interest: The MPA / WPA will only grant planning 
permission for proposals which would adversely affect any (i) locally 
designated nature conservation site; (ii) regionally important geological / 
geomorphological site (RIGS) or (iii) other site which is undesignated but 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
18 
nonetheless of significant conservation interest; where any adverse effect is 
reduced as far as practicable and is outweighed by other planning benefits of 
the proposal. 
 
2.8.18 
GE13 Species and Habitat Protection and Enhancement: The MPA / WPA 
will refuse planning permission for proposals that would adversely affect rare 
or threatened species or their habitats, except where (i) any adverse effect(s) 
would be overcome by appropriate on or off site mitigation measures; or (ii) 
adverse effect(s) are reduced as far as practicable and are clearly 
outweighed by other planning benefits of the proposal and appropriate 
mitigation and/or compensation measures are taken.  
 
2.8.19 
Chapter 8 of Central Bedfordshire Council’s (CBC) Core Strategy (Natural 
and Built Environment) Policy CS18: Biological and Geological Conservation, 
confirms CBC’s commitment to: 
 
1)  support the designation, management, and protection of biodiversity 
and geology including national designations (SSSIs), locally important 
County Wildlife Sites (CWS) and Regionally Important Geological and 
Geomorphological Sites; as well as those local priority habitats and 
species identified in the Local Biodiversity Action Plan; 
2) support the maintenance and enhancement of habitats, identify 
opportunities to create buffer zones and restore and repair fragmented 
and isolated habitats to form biodiversity networks; and 
3)  not permit development that would fragment or prejudice the 
biodiversity network. 
 
2.8.20 
Chapter 14 (Local Character and Countryside (Development Management)) 
Policy DM15: Biodiversity, confirms CBC will ensure that: 
 
1)  where planning applications are considered to have an impact on 
wildlife, whether habitats or species, or where applications are close 
to nationally or locally designated sites or important species, advice 
will be sought from relevant national and local organisations and 
applications considered to be harmful to wildlife will be refused; 
2)  where any development is permitted within, adjacent to or in close 
proximity to designated sites or known locations of protected species, 
the developer will be expected to take steps to secure the protection 
of such animals and plants. In cases where new development is 
unavoidable and may harm wildlife interests, mitigation is required; 
3) for developments where there is a need to protect or enhance 
biodiversity, developers will be required to carry out such work and/or 
make contributions to secure longer term benefits for wildlife; and 
4)  the use of native and locally appropriate species in planting schemes, 
including locally sourced plants and seeds and plants of local 
provenance, will be required where appropriate. 
 
 
Bedford Borough Council Core Strategy and Rural Issues Plan 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
19 
2.8.21 
Policy CP2 (Sustainable Development Principles) of Bedford Borough 
Council’s (BBC’s) Core Strategy and Rural Issues Plan Development Plan, 
promotes development and use of land in a way that will ensure that: 
 
1)  resources and infrastructure are used efficiently with the priority on the 
re-use of brownfield land; 
2)  biodiversity is protected and scarce resources are conserved; 
3)  the character and quality of local landscapes are preserved and where 
appropriate enhanced; and 
4)  opportunities for leisure, recreation and tourism are readily available. 
 
2.8.22 
Policy CP25 (Biodiversity) confirms BBC’s commitment to protection of 
priority habitats and species and the requirement for mitigation and/or 
compensation where development is likely to cause harm: 
 
1)  the biodiversity and geodiversity of the borough and in particular 
priority habitats, species and geodiversity features, will be protected 
and where appropriate enhanced; and 
2)  where harm to biodiversity and/or geodiversity is likely to be a result of 
development, appropriate mitigation and/or compensation will be 
required. Any replacement assets should be of a comparable or 
enhanced value. 
 
2.8.23  BBC are currently preparing their ‘Local Plan 2035’ which will guide 
development beyond the period covered by the existing Core Strategy and 
Rural Issues Plan. The Consultation Paper on the Local Plan 2035, which 
was published in April 2017, outlines BBC’s strategy for development. The 
strategy includes a focus on conserving and enhancing the natural 
environment. 
 
 
The Forest of Marston Vale Forest Plan 2000 
2.8.24 
The Forest Plan 2000 published by the Forest of Marston Vale Trust guides 
management of the Community Forest as a vehicle for environmentally led 
regeneration within the Marston Vale. The Plan sets development and 
management objectives for the Community Forest, placing an emphasis on 
sustainable initiatives, promotion of multi-functional green infrastructure 
through woodland creation as well as the protection of sites of nature 
conservation value and creation of new opportunities for nature conservation. 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
20 
2.9 
Water Quality and Resources 
National Policy Statements 
2.9.1 
In relation to hydrological considerations of Energy NSIPs, NPS EN-1 
requires that: 
2.9.2 
Where the Project is likely to have effects on the water environment, the 
applicant should undertake an assessment of the existing status of, and 
impacts of the development on, water quality, water resources and physical 
characteristics of the water environment; 
 
An application should be accompanied by a Flood Risk Assessment 
(FRA) for energy projects of 1ha or greater in Flood Zone 1 and all 
energy projects in Flood Zone 2 and 3; 
 
Pre-application discussions are undertaken with the Environment 
Agency and other bodies; 
 
Any requirements for sequential testing are satisfied; 
 
Priority is given to the use of Sustainable Drainage Systems (SuDS). 
 
 
National Planning Policy Framework 
2.9.3 
The NPPF and the accompanying Planning Practice Guidance sets out the 
Government’s national policy on development and flood risk and seeks to 
provide clarity on what is required at regional and local levels to ensure that 
flood risk is taken into account at all stages in the planning process, to avoid 
inappropriate development in areas at risk of flooding and to direct 
development away from areas at highest risk.  The NPPF outlines a risk 
based approach to the planning process and requires that the Sequential 
Test is used to guide the decision making process by steering development 
to areas with the lowest probability of flooding where feasible. 
2.9.4 
The NPPF requires that the spatial planning process should consider the 
possible impacts of climate change and contingency allowances are provided 
to enable impacts to be considered over the lifetime of the development. 
Flood and Water Management Act & Sustainable Drainage Systems: 
Written Statement – HCWS161 
2.9.5  
The Flood and Water Management Act (FWMA) received Royal Assent on 
8th April 2010 and takes forward some of the proposals set out in three 
previous strategy documents published by the UK Government: Future 
Water, Making Space for Water and the UK Government's response to the 
Sir Michael Pitt Review of the summer 2007 floods. In doing so it gives the 
Environment Agency a strategic overview of flood risk and gives local 
authorities responsibility for preparing and putting in place strategies for 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
21 
managing flood risk from groundwater, surface water and ordinary 
watercourses in their areas.  
2.9.6 
The Flood and Water Management Act (Schedule 3) proposed the 
establishment of SuDS Approval Bodies (the “SAB”) at County or Unitary 
local authority levels. The role of the SAB was envisaged as implementing 
the recommendations of the Pitt Review (2008) in promoting the use of SuDS 
within future development. 
2.9.7 
Following a period of consultation, the proposed role of the SAB has been 
amended, with the promotion of SuDS being incorporated into the planning 
process. This has been achieved by designating Lead Local Flood Authorities 
as statutory consultees with regards to ‘local’ sources of flood risk and 
surface water management.  Ministerial Written Statement HCWS161 details 
this change in policy, which came into effect in April 2015. 
2.9.8 
The FWMA also amends Section 106 of the Water Industry Act (WIA) in 
respect of the right of connection to a public sewer. In the future, the 
automatic right of connection will be revoked and all new connections must 
be made via a Section 104 Agreement for foul sewers and following the 
consent of the SAB for surface water connections. As the role of the SAB has 
been removed following HCWS161, this amendment to Section 106 of the 
WIA is now subsumed into the planning process under the purview of the 
Lead Local Flood Authority.  
The Flood Risk Regulations 
2.9.9 
The Flood Risk Regulations transpose the EC Floods Directive (Directive 
2007/60/EC) into     domestic law.  The regulations require that preliminary 
flood risk assessments are prepared by the Environment Agency and 
Unitary/County Authorities (Lead Local Flood Authorities) and that areas at 
significant potential risk of flooding are identified.  For these "significant risk" 
areas, hazard maps must be produced and flood risk management plans 
developed to reduce flood risk. 
The Water Resources Act 
2.9.10 
The Water Resources Act 1991 (WRA) came into effect in 1991 and replaced 
the corresponding sections of the Water Act 1989. 
2.9.11 
The WRA sets out the responsibilities of the Environment Agency in relation 
to water pollution, resource management, flood defence, fisheries and, in 
some areas, navigation. The WRA regulates discharges to controlled waters, 
namely rivers, estuaries, coastal waters, lakes and groundwater. Discharge 
to controlled waters is only permitted with the consent of the Environment 
Agency. Similarly, a licence is required to abstract from controlled waters.  
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
22 
Water Environment (Water Framework Directive) (England and Wales) 
Regulations (DEFRA, 2017) 
2.9.12 
These regulations transpose the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) into 
national law.  The Directive is a wide-ranging piece of European legislation 
that establishes a new legal framework for the protection, improvement and 
sustainable use of surface waters, coastal waters and groundwater across 
Europe in order to: 
 Promote sustainable water use; 
 Contribute to the mitigation of floods and droughts; 
 Prevent deterioration and enhance status of aquatic ecosystems, 
including groundwater; 
 Reduce pollution. 
2.9.13 
Water management has historically been co-ordinated according to 
administrative or political boundaries. The WFD promotes a new approach 
based upon management by river basin - the natural geographical and 
hydrological unit. River basin management plans include clear objectives in 
respect of water quality and pollution control and a detailed account of how 
objectives are to be met within a prescribed timeframe. 
Land Drainage Act 1991 
2.9.14 
The Act consolidates various enactments relating to Internal Drainage 
Boards and the functions of these Boards and local authorities in relation to 
land drainage.  Amongst other matters, the Act sets out provisions and 
powers in respect of the control of flow of watercourses and watercourse 
restoration/improvement work. 
The Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 
2.9.15 
The Regulations as amended provide the regulatory framework under which 
discharges to controlled water and other emissions to the environment are 
controlled. 
Non-statutory Technical Standards for Sustainable Drainage Systems 
2.9.16  This document contains non-statutory technical standards for the design, 
maintenance and operation of sustainable drainage systems serving 
housing, non-residential or mixed use developments and was published by 
Defra in March 2015. 
Flood Risk Assessments: Climate Change Allowances 
2.9.17 
This guidance was published by the Environment Agency in February 2016 
and should be used as the basis for preparing Flood Risk Assessments.  The 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
23 
guidance sets out the climate change allowances for peak river flow, peak 
rainfall intensity, sea level rise, off-shore wind speeds and extreme wave 
height. 
2.9.18 
Allowances in respect of peak river flow vary according to River Basin 
District, flood zone and proposed land-use (and therefore the lifetime of the 
development).  The Millbrook Power site lies within the Anglian River Basin 
District. 
The Building Regulations 
 2.9.19 The Building Regulations Requirement H3 stipulates that rainwater 
from roofs and paved areas is carried away from the surface to discharge to 
one of the following, listed in order of priority: 
1) an adequate soakaway or some other adequate infiltration system, or 
where that is not reasonably practicable; 
2) a watercourse, or where that is not practicable; 
3) a sewer. 
The Surface Waters Plan - Plan for Strategic Management of Surface 
Waters and their Local Environment in the Forest of Marston Vale 
(Bedfordshire and River Ivel Internal Drainage Board and the Forest of 
Marston Vale, June 2002) 
2.9.20 
This document was prepared to promote a series of policies that will 
encourage an integrated and sustainable approach to the management of 
surface waters in the context of major development in the area, including: 
 
An integrated approach to flood risk management, surface water 
drainage and the water environment; 
 
Promote government guidance such as PPS25 (since superseded by 
the NPPF), providing a framework for the site specific Flood Risk 
Assessments to be produced in support of planning applications; 
 
Implementation of strategic solutions to surface water drainage and 
flood risk that are sustainable and offer opportunities for environmental 
and recreational gains. 
2.9.21 
It should be noted that Rookery Pit lies outside of the Bedfordshire and River 
Ivel Internal Drainage Board’s area of jurisdiction. However, Mill Brook, which 
flows along the western side of the Pit, outfalls to Stewartby Lake located just 
to the west, which is a water body maintained by the Bedfordshire and River 
Ivel Internal Drainage Board. 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
24 
2.10 
Ground Conditions 
Legislation - Soils 
2.10.1 
The protection and conservation of the soil and groundwater environment is 
covered within a variety of legislative and policy frameworks. 
2.10.2 
UK legislation on contaminated land is principally contained in Part 2A of the 
Environmental Protection Act, 1990, as amended by the Environment Act 
1995. The Statutory Guidance that accompanies the Act has recently been 
revised and was issued by DEFRA in April 2012 (Department of Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs Environmental Protection Act 1990: Part 2A 
Contaminated Land Statutory Guidance). 
2.10.3 
Contaminated Land for the purpose of Part 2A is defined as: “…any land 
which appears to the local authority in whose area it is situated to be in such 
condition, by reason of substances in, on or under land that: (i) Significant 
harm is being caused or there is significant possibility of such harm being 
caused; or (ii) Pollution of controlled waters is being, or is likely to be, 
caused.” 
2.10.4 
The principle of risk assessment underlies the determination of whether these 
definitions apply in the identification of contaminated land.  Risk assessment 
is carried out via ‘source-pathway-receptor’ principles to evaluate the 
potential for pollutant linkages and to identify unacceptable risk. The 
application of risk assessment techniques to the management of 
contaminated land is set out in the technical framework presented in the 
Environment 
Agency 
Model 
Procedures 
for 
the 
Management 
of 
Contaminated Land (CLR11).  
2.10.5 
Following the review of the contaminated land regime including public 
consultation, revised Statutory Guidance was issued and the Contaminated 
Land (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2012 (SI 2012/263) and the 
Contaminated Land Statutory Guidance for England 2012 came into force on 
6th April 2012. This revised Statutory Guidance while still taking a 
precautionary approach allows regulators to make quicker decisions about 
whether or not land is contaminated under Part 2A preventing costly 
remediation Power Generation Plant being undertaken unnecessarily. It also 
offers better protection against potential health impacts by concentrating on 
the sites where action is actually needed. 
Legislation - Groundwater 
2.10.6 
The 1980 Groundwater Directive 80/68/EEC and the 2006 Groundwater 
Daughter Directive 2006/118/EC of the Water Framework Directive 
2000/60/EC (WFD) are the main European legislation in place to protect 
groundwater. The Water Framework Directive (WFD) (2000) aims to protect 
and enhance the quality of surface freshwater, groundwaters and dependent 
eco systems, estuaries and coastal waters.  
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
25 
2.10.7 
Controlled waters are also protected by Part 2A of the Environmental 
Protection Act 1990. 
2.10.8 
The Environment Agency has a remit to prevent or reduce the risk of water 
pollution, wherever possible, and to ensure that it gets cleaned up if pollution 
occurs that might lead to effects on ecosystems or people.  A regulatory 
regime supporting this policy has been introduced by the Water Resources 
Act 1991 (as modified by the Environment Act 1995), and the Environmental 
Permitting Regulations 2010.  
National Planning Policy Framework  
2.10.9 
The NPPF sets out to prevent both new and existing development from 
contributing to or being put at unacceptable risk from, or being adversely 
affected by unacceptable levels of soil, air, water or noise pollution or land 
instability; and remediating and mitigating despoiled, degraded, derelict, 
contaminated and unstable land, where appropriate. It also requires that 
unacceptable risks from pollution and land instability, planning policies and 
decisions should ensure that new development is appropriate for its location. 
2.10.10 For planning purposes, the NPPF requires that the assessment of risks 
arising from contamination and remediation requirements should be 
considered on the basis of the current environmental setting, the current land 
use, and the circumstances of its proposed new use.    
2.10.11 National Planning Practice Guidance (NPPG) was introduced on the 6th 
March 2014 by the DCLG in relation to “Land affected by contamination” and 
“Water supply, wastewater and water quality”. The guidance sets out both the 
statutory regime and phased approach that should be adopted in the 
determination and assessment of risk.  
2.10.12 National Planning Practice Guidance was also introduced on the 6th March 
2014 by the DCLG in relation to “Land Stability”. The guidance sets out both 
the statutory regime and phased approach that should be adopted in the 
determination and assessment of risk. 
Local Policy 
2.10.13 Reference has also been made to regional and local planning policies, 
including the following: 
 
Bedfordshire Minerals and Waste Local Plan policies GE1 and GE20 
require applications to provide details regarding impact on water 
resources and its quality.   
 
Central Bedfordshire’s Local Development Framework Draft Design 
Guide – Requires developers to carry out contaminated land surveys 
in order to demonstrate how any existing contamination can be 
mitigated (if present).   
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
26 
 
Central Bedfordshire Council (CBC) Core Strategy policy CS13: 
Climate Change considers measures to take account of climate 
change, such as; contributions to waste minimisation; and, provisions 
to limit any adverse effects on water quality.  Policy CS18: Biodiversity 
and Geological Conservation, supports the designation, management, 
and protection of geology.  
 
CBC Core Strategy policy DM3: High Quality Development, requires 
all proposals for new development to comply with the current guidance 
on waste management, water and airborne pollution. 
 
BBC Core Strategy policy CP21: Designing in Quality, requires new 
development to mitigate against the effects of any pollution including 
from water and land contamination. 
 
BBC Core Strategy policy CP26: Climate Change and Pollution, 
requires that any potentially polluting developments and the location 
of sensitive developments in proximity to existing sources of pollution 
are material planning considerations.  This position is supported in the 
Borough’s Climate Change and Pollution SPD.   
Guidance 
2.10.14 There are numerous technical guidance documents on the assessment and 
management of contamination including Contaminated Land Report CLR 11 
(EA, 2004).  
2.10.15 A summary of the guidance relating to the protection of groundwater 
resources is presented in the publication by the Environment Agency (EA) 
entitled ‘Groundwater Protection: Principles and Practice (GP3)’ (EA, 2012). 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
27 
2.11 
LVIA 
National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) 
2.11.1 
National policy seeks to protect and enhance environmental quality 
specifically for new energy infrastructure through NPS EN-1. It recognises 
that nationally significant infrastructure projects will have effects on the 
landscape and that the scale of such projects means they may be visible 
within many miles of the site of the proposed infrastructure. 
2.11.2 
Section 5.9 of NPS EN-1 requires that “The applicant’s assessment should 
include the effects during construction of the project and the effects of the 
completed development and its operation on landscape components and 
landscape character. The assessment should include the visibility and 
conspicuousness of the project during construction and of the presence and 
operation of the project and potential impacts on views and visual amenity. 
This should include light pollution effects, including on local amenity, and 
nature conservation”. 
2.11.3 
With regard to landscape impacts, NPS EN-1 states that “Landscape effects 
depend on the existing character of the local landscape, its current quality, 
how highly it is valued and its capacity to accommodate change. All of these 
factors need to be considered in judging the impact of a project on landscape. 
Virtually all nationally significant infrastructure projects will have effects on 
the landscape. Projects need to be designed carefully, taking account of the 
potential impact on the landscape. Having regard to siting, operational and 
other relevant constraints the aim should be to minimise harm to the 
landscape, providing reasonable mitigation where possible and appropriate.” 
2.11.4 
With reference to visual impact NPS EN-1 states that “All proposed energy 
infrastructure is likely to have visual effects for many receptors around 
proposed sites. The [Secretary of State] will have to judge whether the visual 
effects on sensitive receptors…outweigh the benefits of the project…The 
[Secretary of State] should ensure applicants have taken into account the 
landscape and visual impacts of visible plumes from chimney stacks and/or 
the cooling assembly”. 
NPS EN-2: Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure  
2.11.5 
Section 2.6 of NPS EN-2 relates to landscape and visual effects. It is stated 
that: 
 
 
“It is not possible to eliminate the visual impacts associated with a 
fossil fuel generating station. Mitigation is therefore to reduce the 
visual intrusion of the buildings in the landscape and minimise impact 
on visual amenity as far as reasonably practicable; 
 
Applicants should design fossil fuel generating systems with the aim 
of providing the best fit with the existing local landscape so as to 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
28 
reduce visual impacts. This may include design of buildings to 
minimise negative aspects of their appearance through decisions in 
areas such as size, external finish and colour of the plant as far as 
compliance with engineering and environmental requirements permit. 
The precise architectural treatment will need to be site-specific; 
 
Reduction of visual impacts may often involve enclosing the buildings 
at low level as seen from surrounding external viewpoints. This makes 
the scale of the plant less apparent, and helps conceal the lower level, 
smaller scale features of the plant. Earth bunds and mounds, tree 
planting, or both may be used for softening the visual intrusion and 
may also help to attenuate noise from site activities. Where the existing 
landscape is more industrial, design may involve other forms of visual 
impact mitigation.” 
2.11.6 
However, it should be noted that the creation of earth bunds is contrary to the 
landscape management guidelines within the Central Bedfordshire 
Landscape Character Assessment (LUC 2015), which states that such 
features are inappropriate in the context of this flat, open landscape. 
NPS EN-4: Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil Pipelines  
2.11.7 
NPS EN-4 addresses landscape and visual effects within section 2.21. It is 
stated that: 
 
 
“These comprise the effect upon specific landscape elements within 
and adjacent to the pipeline route, such as grassland, field boundaries 
(hedgebanks, drystone walls, fences), trees, woodlands, and 
watercourses. There will also be temporary visual impacts caused by 
the need to access the working corridor and to remove flora and soil. 
The working width of the pipeline will vary depending on the 
surrounding terrain. Temporary impacts could include large 
excavations where deep pits are needed for boring beneath rivers, 
roads and sensitive features; and 
 
Mitigation measures to protect the landscape and ecology could 
include reducing the working width required for the installation of the 
pipeline in order to reduce the impact on the landscape where it will 
not be possible to fully reinstate the route.” 
NPS EN-5: Electricity Networks Infrastructure  
2.11.8 
NPS EN-5 states in section 2.8 Landscape and Visual: 
 
“Guidelines for the routing of new overhead lines, the Holford Rules, 
were originally set out in 1959 by Lord Holford, and are intended as a 
common sense approach to the routing of new overhead lines. These 
guidelines were reviewed and updated by the industry in the 1990s 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
29 
and should be followed by developers when designing their 
proposals”; and  
 
“In addition to following the principles set out in the Holford Rules and 
considering undergrounding, the main opportunities for mitigating 
potential adverse landscape and visual impacts of electricity networks 
infrastructure are: 
o 
consideration of 
network reinforcement options (where 
alternatives exist) which may allow improvements to an existing 
line rather than the building of an entirely new line; and 
o 
selection of the most suitable type and design of support 
structure (i.e. different lattice tower types, use of wooden poles 
etc.) in order to minimise the overall visual impact on the 
landscape.” 
The European Landscape Convention (ELC) 
2.11.9    The ELC became binding in 2007 and is the first international convention to 
focus specifically on landscape issues to protect, manage and plan 
landscapes in Europe. The ELC defines landscape as “an area, as perceived 
by people, whose character is the result of the action and interaction of 
natural and/or human factors.” The ELC has not resulted in any new UK 
legislation. 
The Countryside and Rights of Way Act (CRoW) 2000  
2.11.10 The CRoW Act provides a statutory framework for statutorily protected 
landscapes. It introduced an additional right of access requiring the 
identification of Open Access Land.  
National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) 
2.11.11 Twelve core planning principles are set out in paragraph 17 of the NPPF, and 
those of relevance to LVIA include the principles that planning should: 
 
‘‘always seek to secure high quality design and good standards of 
amenity for all existing and future occupants of land and buildings; 
 
take account of the different roles and character of different areas, 
promoting the vitality of our main urban areas, protecting the Green 
Belts around them, recognising the intrinsic character and beauty of 
the countryside and supporting thriving rural communities within it;  
 
contribute to conserving and enhancing the natural environment and 
reducing pollution. Allocations of land for development should prefer 
land of lesser environmental value, where consistent with other 
policies in this Framework; 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
encourage the effective use of land by reusing land that has been 
previously developed (brownfield land), provided that it is not of high 
environmental value; and 
 
conserve heritage assets in a manner appropriate to their significance, 
so that they can be enjoyed for their contribution to the quality of life of 
this and future generations.” 
Regional and Local Policy 
2.11.12 The Central Bedfordshire Core Strategy and Development Management 
Policy, adopted November 2009 (Central Bedfordshire Council, 2009), is the 
key policy document, providing the framework against which to assess 
planning applications in the area.  It provides objectives, spatial strategy and 
development management policies for the period 2001–2026. Those relevant 
to landscape and visual issues are:  
 
Policy CS14: High Quality Development; 
 
Policy CS15: Heritage; 
 
Policy CS16: Landscape and Woodland; and 
 
Development Management Policy DM14: Landscape and Woodland. 
2.11.13 Within the Central Bedfordshire Development Strategy (revised pre-
submission draft, May 2014) the policy relevant to landscape and visual 
issues is:  
 
Policy 58: Landscape. 
2.11.14 The Forest of Marston Vale: Forest Plan (The Forest of Marston Vale, 2000).  
The Forest of Marston Vale is one of 12 Community Forests within England.  
The Forest Plan is a non-statutory document which sets out proposals for 
developing the forest over a 30-year period.  It includes a landscape 
assessment, and identifies four landscape zones, with specific proposals. 
The Project Site lies within two of the landscape zones. 
2.11.15 Within the Bedford Borough Core Strategy and Rural Issues Plan (adopted 
April 2008), the policy relevant to landscape and visual issues is: 
 
Policy CP25: Landscape Protection and Enhancement 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
31 
2.12 
Traffic and Transport 
National Planning Policy Framework (March 2012) 
2.12.1 
When the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) was published on 
27th March 2012, it replaced all Planning Policy Guidance (PPG) and 
Planning Policy Statements (PPS). 
2.12.2 
The NPPF promotes sustainable development and states that there is to be 
a "presumption in favour of sustainable development" when making plans 
and decisions. 
2.12.3 
A Transport Statement or Transport Assessment and Travel Plan should be 
provided for all developments that generate significant amounts of movement 
(Paragraphs 32 and 36 of the NPPF) and decisions should ensure that they 
"are located where the need to travel will be minimised and the use of 
sustainable transport modes can be maximised" (Paragraph 34), and take 
account of whether: 
 
the opportunities for sustainable transport modes have been taken 
up…; 
 
safe and suitable access to the site can be achieved for all people; and  
 
improvements can be undertaken within the transport network that 
cost effectively limit the significant impacts of the development. 
2.12.4 
To facilitate the use of sustainable modes of transport, Paragraph 35 states 
that, where feasible, developments should be located and designed to:  
 
accommodate the efficient delivery of goods and supplies;  
 
give priority to pedestrian and cycle movements, and have access to 
high quality public transport facilities; 
 
create safe and secure layouts which minimise conflicts between 
traffic and cyclists or pedestrians…; 
 
incorporate facilities for charging plug-in and other ultra-low emission 
vehicles; and 
 
consider the needs of people with disabilities by all modes of transport. 
2.12.5  In terms of managing the off-site impacts of the traffic generated from the 
development, paragraph 32 also states: 
“Development should only be prevented or refused on transport grounds 
where the residual cumulative impacts of development are severe”. 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
32 
Planning Practice Guidance – (Travel Plans, Transport Assessments 
and Statements in Decision Taking – Updated 06/03/2014) 
2.12.6 
This guidance, in part, supersedes earlier guidance published by the 
Department for Transport in 2009 (‘Good Practice Guidelines: Delivering 
Travel Plans through the Planning Process’) and has been prepared in 
consultation with Department for Communities and Local Government 
(DCLG), bringing together current practice from examples from around the 
country.   
The guidelines cover, in particular: 
 
when a Transport Assessment is required; 
 
how the need for, and scope of a Transport Assessment should be 
established; and 
 
what information should be included in Transport Assessments. 
2.12.7 
The planning practice guidance provides advice on what information should 
be included in Transport Assessments and states that: 
“Paragraph 32 of the National Planning Policy Framework sets out that all 
developments that generate significant amounts of transport movement 
should be supported by a Transport Statement or Transport Assessment.” 
2.12.8 
It also states that: 
“Key issues to consider at the start of preparing a Transport Assessment or 
Statement may include: 
 
the planning context of the development proposal; 
 
appropriate study parameters (i.e. area, scope and duration of study); 
 
assessment of public transport capacity, walking/ cycling capacity and 
road network capacity; 
 
road trip generation and trip distribution methodologies and/ or 
assumptions about the development proposal; 
 
measures to promote sustainable travel; 
 
safety implications of development; and 
 
mitigation measures (where applicable) – including scope and 
implementation strategy.” 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
33 
Highways Agency Circular 02/2013: The Strategic Road Network and 
the Delivery of Sustainable Development 
2.12.9  Relevant policy is set out in Circular 02/2013 'The Strategic Road Network 
and the Delivery of Sustainable Development’ published in September 2013, 
which replaced the previous Circular 02/2007 ‘Planning and the Strategic 
Road Network’ published in March 2007. 
2.12.10 At the time this circular was prepared, Highways England was operating 
under its previous name as the Highways Agency.  Circular 02/2013 sets out 
the role of the then Highways Agency in engaging with communities and 
developers to deliver sustainable development and economic growth. 
2.12.11 Paragraph 9 sets out the broad policy aims of the circular as it relates to 
development proposals, stating that: 
“Development proposals are likely to be acceptable if they can be 
accommodated within the existing capacity of a section (link or junction) 
…or they do not increase demand for use of a section that is already 
operating at over-capacity levels, taking account of any travel plan, traffic 
management and/or capacity enhancement measures that may be agreed”. 
2.12.12 However, with reference to decision making regarding developments, 
paragraph 9 goes on to state: 
“However, development should only be prevented or refused on transport 
grounds where the residual cumulative impacts of development are severe”. 
Highways Agency and the Planning Application Process: A Protocol 
for Dealing with Planning Applications (2014) 
2.12.13 In November 2011, the Highways Agency (now Highway’s England) 
published a protocol document outlining how the Highways Agency would 
deal with planning applications. This was updated in June 2014.  
2.12.14 The document tables the information that Highways England require in order 
to engage in the pre-application scoping process and sets out the key 
principles as it relates to the mitigation of impacts of developments on the 
strategic road network. The document states that mitigation of impacts should 
be based on the following hierarchy: 
1) Minimise the level of off-site mitigation required through the use of 
measures such as travel plans and development phasing; 
2) Implement physical measures on the local road network to minimise 
impact on the strategic road network; 
3) Once all reasonable minimisation and off-network mitigation has 
been implemented, capacity improvements on the strategic road 
network will be considered. 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
34 
The document also states that the mitigation proposed "must be sufficient to 
offset the detriment to the strategic road network". 
Highways England – The Strategic Road Network Planning for the 
Future (September 2015) 
2.12.15 Highways England’s ‘Planning for the Future’ document sets out HE’s 
approach when considering planning applications.  The document provides 
guidance on what information should be contained within respective planning 
proposals in relation to the strategic road network (SRN), and the decision 
making process.  
2.12.16 The five planning values identified by HE within this document are: 
 
engage early; 
 
work openly; 
 
share evidence; 
 
share knowledge; and 
 
work collaboratively.  
2.12.17 The document places a great emphasis on early engagement with HE, in 
order to ensure that all parties can work as a collaborative to deliver the 
various outcomes in the most effective way.   By working jointly with HE, 
relevant parties can ensure effective local economic growth whilst promoting 
sustainable transport outcomes.  The document states: 
“Engaging early, such as pre-application, gives all parties maximum time to 
understand the impacts of proposed development on the SRN, the level of 
assessment required to understand impacts, and to agree the most 
appropriate actions required as a result to help ensure the development 
proposal is sound and deliverable.” 
Local Transport Plans   
2.12.18 The Local Transport Plan (LTP) establishes a strategic approach through 
which to deal with key transport issues, objectives, and interventions. Two 
Local Transport Plans are relevant to the Proposed Development: Central 
Bedfordshire Council and Bedford Borough Council. 
2.12.19 Central Bedfordshire Council’s LTP3 considers the period between April 
2011 and March 2026. In Section 6, the LTP identifies a series of objectives, 
including: 
 
Increasing the ease of access to employment by sustainable modes; 
 
Reducing the impact of commuting trips on local communities; and 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
Minimising the negative impacts of freight trips on local communities. 
2.12.20 Bedford Borough Council’s LTP3 is published as a series of supporting 
strategy documents, and considers the period between April 2011 and March 
2021. It identifies a series of actions and objectives, including: 
 
Increasing the number of trips undertaken by active travel modes for 
all purposes; and 
 
Ensuring that freight delivery routing, controls and infrastructure are 
considered as an integral part of planning proposals for Bedford 
Borough. 
Emerging Local Plan 2035 - (Consultation Paper, 2017) 
2.12.21 The Bedford Borough Council’s emerging Local Plan will replace and 
extend the current planning policy documents which cover the period up to 
2021.  The new Local Plan will contain policies which will be used to assist 
decisions on planning applications throughout the Borough. 
2.12.22 With regards to employment sites, the Local Plan supports “new form 
and/or quality of employment sites”, rather than duplicate existing 
undeveloped sites.  
2.12.22 The Local Plan states that “New employment development should be located 
near to main roads, preferably re-suing existing employment sites, and be in 
locations with good access by public transport, bicycle and foot”. 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
36 
2.13 
Archaeology and Cultural Heritage 
Overarching National Planning Statement for Energy (NPS-EN1) 
2.13.1   NPS EN 1 deals specifically with potential impacts of Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Projects on heritage assets in Section 5.8 which states:  
“The level of detail should be proportionate to the importance of the heritage 
assets and no more than is sufficient to understand the potential impact of 
the proposal on the significance of the heritage asset. As a minimum the 
applicant should have consulted the relevant Historic Environment 
Record120 (or, where the development is in English or Welsh waters, 
English Heritage or Cadw) and assessed the heritage asset themselves 
using expertise where necessary according to the propose development’s 
impact. 
 
Where a development site includes, or the available evidence suggests it 
has the potential to include, heritage assets with an archaeological interest 
the applicant should carry out appropriate desk-based assessment and, 
where such desk-based research is insufficient to properly assess the 
interest, a field evaluation”. 
 
National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) & National Planning 
Practice Guidance (NPPG) 
 
2.13.2  Government policy in relation to the historic environment is outlined in 
section 12 of the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF), entitled 
Conserving and Enhancing the Historic Environment. This provides 
guidance for planning authorities, property owners, developers and others 
on the conservation and investigation of heritage assets.   Overall, the 
objectives of Section 12 of the NPPF can be summarised as seeking the: 
 
2.13.3 
Delivery of sustainable development: 
 
Understanding the wider social, cultural, economic and environmental 
benefits brought by the conservation of the historic environment; 
 
Conservation of England's heritage assets in a manner appropriate to 
their significance, and 
 
Recognition of the contribution that heritage assets make to our 
knowledge and understanding of the past. 
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (as amended) 
2.13.4 
Scheduled Monuments are designated by the Secretary of State for Culture, 
Media and Sport on the advice of English Heritage as selective examples of 
nationally important archaeological remains.  Under the terms of Part I 
Section 2 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (the 
“1979 Act”), it is an offence to demolish, destroy, damage, remove, repair, 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
37 
flood or tip on a Scheduled Monument either above or below ground without 
first obtaining permission (Scheduled Monument Consent) from the 
Secretary of State.  This Act does not allow for the protection of the setting of 
Scheduled Monuments. 
Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 
2.13.5 
When considering whether to grant planning permission for development 
which affects a listed building or its setting, Section 66 of the Planning (Listed 
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (the “1990 Act”) places a 
statutory duty on a local planning authority [LPA] or, as the case may be, the 
Secretary of State to “have special regard to the desirability of preserving the 
building or its setting or any features of special architectural or historic interest 
which it possesses” (para. 66(1).   
2.13.6 
Section 72 of the 1990 Act places a general duty on planning authorities in 
the exercise of planning functions with respect to any buildings or other land 
in a conservation area, stating that “special attention shall be paid to the 
desirability of preserving or enhancing the character or appearance of that 
area” (para. 72 (1). There is no specific reference to the setting of 
Conservation Areas in the 1990 Act.   
Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 
2.13.7 
Under Section 38 (6) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 
(the “2004 Act”), “If regard is to be had to the development plan for the 
purpose of any determination to be made under the planning Acts the 
determination must be made in accordance with the plan unless material 
considerations indicate otherwise” (para. 36 (6)). 
2.13.8 
Relevant Planning Policy for cultural heritage is presented in the National 
Policy Statement for Energy [NPS EN-1]. It is also contained within the 
National Planning Policy Framework [NPPF] and the associated Planning 
Practice Guidance [PPG]. Policies relevant to the proposed development are 
also presented in the adopted Development Plans for the host authorities and 
other Local Development Framework Documents [LDF’s]. 
Local Planning Policy 
2.13.9 
The BBC Local Plan 2015 Planning for the Future outlines the emerging 
planning policy for the Borough.  The growth strategy and policy outlined in 
this document do not have any implications new or additional heritage related 
implications.   
2.13.10  The Central Bedfordshire LDF Core Strategy and Development Management 
Policies (Adopted December 2009) contains the following following policy 
relating to the historic environment: 
 
 
“Policy CS15 Heritage 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
38 
The Council will: 
 
Protect, conserve and enhance the district’s heritage including its 
Listed Buildings, Scheduled Ancient Monuments, Conservation Areas, 
Registered Parks and Gardens and archaeology and their setting. 
 
Conserve and where appropriate enhance the quality and integrity of 
the local built and natural environment, including historic structures or 
open green spaces considered to be of special local interest. 
 
Designate and keep under review Conservation Areas in order to 
protect or enhance their special architectural or historic interest. This 
will include the implementation of an on-going programme of 
Conservation Area Character Appraisals to include a review of their 
special interest and boundaries. 
 
Monitor and survey the condition of Listed Buildings and periodically 
review and update a Register of Buildings at Risk, providing 
appropriate grant assistance to encourage their essential sympathetic 
repair.” 
Other Guidance 
2.13.11 For a proposed development in England, the government and professional 
guidance relating to the process of identifying the significance of heritage 
assets and their settings and undertaking assessments of direct and indirect 
effects on heritage assets also includes:   
 
Scheduled Monuments – Identifying, protecting, conserving and 
investigating nationally important archaeological sites under the 
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 (DCMS 
2010b); 
 
Principles of Selection for Listing Buildings (DCMS 2010a); 
 
Conservation Principles – Policies and Guidance for the Sustainable 
Management of the Historic Environment (English Heritage 2008); 
 
Seeing the History in the View – A Method for Assessing Heritage 
Significance in Views (English Heritage 2011a); 
 
Historic Environment Good Practice Advice in Planning Note 2: 
Managing Significance in Decision-Taking in the Historic Environment 
(Historic England 2015b); 
 
Historic Environment Good Practice Advice in Planning Note 3: The 
Setting of Heritage Assets (Historic England 2015b); and 
 
Standard and Guidance for Historic Environment Desk-based 
Assessments (Chartered Institute for Archaeologists 2014).   
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
39 
2.14 
Socio-economics 
National Policy Statements 
2.14.1 
NPS EN-1 acknowledges “the construction, operation and decommissioning 
of energy infrastructure may have socio-economic impacts at local and 
regional levels”. At paragraph 4.2.2 it states that in addition to an ES prepared 
in accordance with the European Environmental Impact Assessment 
Directive “the IPC will find it helpful if the applicant sets out information on the 
likely significant social and economic effects of the development, and show 
how any likely significant negative effects would be avoided or mitigated. This 
could include employment, equality, community cohesion and well-being.” 
2.14.2 
Paragraph 5.12.3 states that where the project is likely to have socio-
economic impacts at local or regional levels, the applicant should undertake 
and include in their application an assessment of relevant socio-economic 
impacts, which may include: creation of jobs and training opportunities; 
provision of additional local services and improvements to local infrastructure 
including provision of educational and visitor facilities; effects on tourism; and 
the impacts of a changing influx of workers during different phases. 
2.14.3 
Paragraph 5.12.7 further notes that in making a decision on energy NSIPs 
the SoS may attribute limited weight to assertions of socio-economic impact 
that are not supported by evidence and may take into account mitigation such 
as planning obligations and particular options as to phasing the development 
in relation to impacts.   
2.14.4 
NPS EN-2, Paragraph 1.72 details the benefits of a low carbon economy 
including the likely “positive effects on the Economy and Skills, and Health 
and Well-being as secondary benefits and positive effects in the medium/long 
term on climate change.” 
2.14.5 
While only a number of the impacts raised in the NPSs are considered likely 
to be relevant to the Project, the socio-economic assessment may also 
consider any relevant positive provisions the developer has made or is 
proposing to make to mitigate impacts (for example through planning 
obligations) and any legacy benefits that may arise as well as any options for 
phasing development in relation to the Socio-Economic Impacts, to enable 
them to be considered by the SoS for the purposes of decision-making. 
Other National and Local Policy 
2.14.6 
While the Planning Act 2008 is clear as to the primacy of the relevant NPS, 
other national and local planning policies can be considered important and 
relevant by the SoS in the determination of an energy NSIP. 
2.14.7 
The NPPF has sustainable development at its core, stating that the policies 
in paragraphs 18-219 taken as a whole constitute the Government’s view of 
what sustainable development in England means in practice for the planning 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
40 
system. It recognises that sustainable development has three dimensions: 
economic, social and environmental, and these dimensions are reflected in 
the 12 ‘Core planning principles’. Those of relevance to socio-economic 
impact assessment are: 
 
Proactively drive and support sustainable economic development to 
deliver the homes, business and industrial units, infrastructure and 
thriving local places that the country needs. Every effort should be 
made objectively to identify and then meet the housing, business and 
other development needs of an area, and respond positively to wider 
opportunities for growth. Plans should take account of market signals, 
such as land prices and housing affordability, and set out a clear 
strategy for allocating sufficient land which is suitable for development 
in their area, taking account of the needs of the residential and 
business communities; and 
 
Take account of and support local strategies to improve health, social 
and cultural wellbeing for all, and deliver sufficient community and 
cultural facilities and services to meet local needs. 
2.14.8 
These underpin the 13 ways of ‘delivering sustainable development’, the 
most relevant to this Socio-Economic Impact assessment being listed below: 
 
Building a strong, competitive economy (1). 
 
Supporting a prosperous rural economy (3). 
 
Promoting healthy communities (8). 
2.14.9 
In relation to (1) it is stated that “the Government is committed to ensuring 
that the planning system does everything it can to support sustainable 
economic growth. Planning should operate to encourage and not act as an 
impediment to sustainable growth. Therefore, significant weight should be 
placed on the need to support economic growth through the planning system” 
(paragraph 19). Paragraph 21 further states that “investment in business 
should not be over-burdened by the combined requirements of planning 
policy expectations. [Local] Planning policies should recognise and seek to 
address potential barriers to investment, including a poor environment or any 
lack of infrastructure, services or housing”.  
2.14.10 In relation to (3) paragraph 28 states that “planning policies should support 
economic growth in rural areas in order to create jobs and prosperity by taking 
a positive approach to sustainable new development. To promote a strong 
rural economy, local and neighbourhood plans should support the 
sustainable growth and expansion of all types of business and enterprise in 
rural areas…”.  
2.14.11 In Promoting Healthy Communities (8), paragraphs 69 and 70 note that 
(local) planning policies and decisions should develop a shared vision with 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
41 
communities of the environment and facilities they wish to see, and take an 
integrated approach to the location of economic uses of land.  
2.14.12 HM Government’s 2012 Gas Generation Strategy, prepared by the 
Department of Energy & Climate Change (DECC), highlights that gas-fired 
power stations are relatively cost effective and quick to build.  It states that 
these plants can “offer employment opportunities throughout the country”. 
2.14.13 HM Government’s UK Low Carbon Transition Plan: National Strategy for 
Climate and Energy, also prepared by DECC states, “Coal and gas will 
remain important to ensure our electricity supply is reliable and secure as we 
move towards greater dependence on intermittent renewable sources like 
wind”. 
2,14.14 The Central Bedfordshire Economic Development Plan (November 2011) 
outlines CBC’s plan to reach its full economic potential. Central Bedfordshire 
aims to create 27,000 new jobs by 2026. This will be achieved by “attracting 
new industries and businesses to the area in addition to new jobs created by 
population growth” (p4). It states, “Central Bedfordshire is to be recognised 
as a place truly open for business” (p4). 
2.14.15 The Central Bedfordshire Economic Development plan “focuses on creating 
the right conditions to attract, retain and grow business to provide more 
employment opportunities and support our residents to access and benefit 
from such opportunities” (p5). 
2.14.16 The Central Bedfordshire Core Strategy and Development Management 
Policies (Adopted November 2009) provides a long term vision for 
development in the area up to 2026. The Project Site is located in the North 
Marston Vale Strategic Area which is allocated for significant housing, 
employment and regeneration uses. One of the main challenges identified in 
this document is the provision of jobs and the strategy outlines the aim to 
provide additional jobs for the increasing population.  
2.14.17 Bedford Growth Plan (2014) – Stimulating Economic Growth provides a 
framework for promoting economic development. This document proposes 
that a new growth plan is required to allow faster delivery of jobs growth. Two 
aims which are of relevance to this Project are to “bring forward employment 
sites faster” and “regenerate older industrial estates” (p12). One of the main 
aims is to attract private sector investment to the area.  
2.14.18 Shaping Bedford Borough’s Economy (2011-2014) sets out the vision for 
Bedford to be “A Thriving Borough with a stronger local economy delivering 
higher levels of sustainable growth and employment for the benefit of the 
Borough’s existing and future residents”. 
2.14.19 The strategy seeks a change in direction towards private sector led 
employment growth.  Priority 2 is “directed to support private sector business 
growth to offset the decline in the public sector and deliver the required 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
 
 
 
42 
overall future growth in employment”. There is a need to attract higher paid 
jobs to the area.  
2.14.20 Bedford’s Draft Local Plan (to 2035) is due to be published in June 2017. The 
Background Papers for the plan focusing on renewable energy (December 
2016) suggests that for all development sites, suitability of specific sites for 
development will need to be determined on an individual site basis, taking 
account of a range of relevant planning considerations. It notes that all 
development will need to take account of: 
 
Context, visual appearance and landscape character; 
 
Natural features, the natural environment, geology and biodiversity; 
 
Cultural features, historical and archaeological features, heritage 
assets; 
 
Local land use, social and economic impacts; 
 
Surface and ground water; and 
 
Traffic and access. 
2.14.21 The Bedford Energy Potential Study considered advantages to locating new 
energy from waste development on, or adjacent to, a site which is already in 
a waste management use. 
2.14.22 Central Bedfordshire’s Draft Local Plan is due to be published for consultation 
in June 2017 though no guidance has been published to date to suggest 
material changes to existing plan. 
 
