Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group 
plc to be held on 27 April 2022  
  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 1 Embankment Place, London, WC2N 6RH 
T: +44 (0) 20 7583 5000, F: +44 (0) 20 7822 4652, www.pwc.co.uk  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England with registered number OC303525. The registered office of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH.PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is authorised and regulated by 
theFinancial Conduct Authority for designated investment business. 
 
Drax Group plc 
The Drax Group plc Long 
Term Incentive Plan 2020 
 
 
Shareholder approval: 22 April 2020 
Board adoption: 1 May 2020 
Plan expires: 22 April 2030 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group 
plc to be held on 27 April 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. 
Grant of Awards 
1 
2. Plan limits 
3 
3. Individual limits 
4 
4. Award Price 
54 
5. Performance Target and conditions 
5 
6. Malus 
65 
7. Clawback 
6 
8. Vesting of Awards (and exercise of Options) 
9 
9. Holding Period 
1211 
10. Vesting of Awards (and exercise of Options) in special 
circumstances 
1312 
11. Takeover and other corporate events 
1514 
12. Exchange of Awards 
1716 
13. Lapse of Awards 
17 
14. Adjustment of Awards on Reorganisation 
1817 
15. Tax and social security withholding 
1817 
16. Rights and listing of Plan Shares 
1918 
17. Relationship of the Plan to contract of employment 
1918 
18. Administration of the Plan 
2019 
19. Amendment of the Plan 
2120 
20. Notices 
2221 
21. Governing law and jurisdiction 
2221 
22. Interpretation 
2221 
 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 1 
 
 
1. 
Grant of Awards 
 
Awards granted by Board 
Subject to Rules 1.5, 1.6, 1.7 and 18.3, the Board may from time to time grant Awards to Eligible Employees. 
 Terms of Awards and Directors’ Remuneration Policy limitations 
Subject to the Rules, the Board will in its absolute discretion decide whether or not any Awards are to be 
granted at any particular time and, if they are, to whom they are granted and the terms of such Awards. 
Where the Company has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved by the Company in general 
meeting, the terms of an Award to be granted to an Eligible Employee who is a director of the Company must 
fall within the scope of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy most recently approved by the Company in a general 
meeting. Such terms may include by way of example but without limitation any relevant individual limit in Rule 
3 and any Performance Target set under Rule 5. 
 Procedure for grant of Awards and Award Date 
An Award shall be granted by the Board passing a resolution. The Award Date shall be the date on which the 
Board passes the resolution or any later date specified in the resolution and allowed by Rule 1.5. The grant of an 
Award shall be evidenced by a deed executed by or on behalf of the Board.  
An Award Certificate or a Restricted Share Agreement (as applicable) shall be issued to each Award Holder as 
soon as reasonably practicable following the grant of the Award setting out details of the Award determined in 
accordance with Rule 1.4 and, where applicable, Rule 1.12. 
 Terms and conditions set at grant 
The Board shall, at the time of grant, determine: 
 
whether the Award comprises an Option, a Conditional Share Award or Restricted Shares; 
 
the Award Date; 
 
the number of Plan Shares subject to the Award or the basis on which the number of Plan Shares will be 
calculated; 
 
the Award Price (if any); 
 
the date or dates on which the Award will normally Vest; 
 
whether or not any dividend equivalents will be payable under Rule 8.9; 
 
in the case of an Option, the Exercise Period(s); 
 
any Performance Target(s);  
 
any Holding Period; 
 
whether Rule 6 (Malus) and/or Rule 7 (Clawback) shall apply to the Award;  
 
any other conditions of the Award; and 
 
where the Award comprises Restricted Shares, any provisions which must be determined under Rule 
1.12. 
 
When Awards may be granted 
Subject to Rule 1.6, the Board may grant Awards only during the 42 days beginning on:  
 
the date of shareholder approval of the Plan; 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 2 
 
 
 
the day after the announcement of the Company’s results, including a preliminary announcement, for 
any period through a Regulatory Information Service; 
 
any day on which the Board determines that circumstances are sufficiently exceptional to justify the 
grant of the Award at that time; or 
 
the day after the lifting of any Dealing Restrictions which prevented the grant of Awards during any of 
the times described above. 
 When Awards may not be granted 
Awards may not be granted: 
 
when prevented by any Dealing Restrictions; or 
 
after the 10th anniversary of shareholder approval of the Plan. 
 
Who can be granted Awards 
An Award may only be granted to an individual who is an Eligible Employee at the Award Date. Unless the 
Board decides otherwise, an Award will not be granted to an Eligible Employee who on or before the Award 
Date has given or received notice of termination of employment (whether or not lawful). 
 Confirmation of acceptance of Award 
The Board may require an Eligible Employee who is (or is to be) granted an Award to confirm their acceptance 
of the Rules and the terms of any Award granted to them by a specified date. Such confirmation will be in a 
manner and form set by the Board). The Board may provide either that the Award will lapse (and as a result be 
treated as never having been granted) if the confirmation of acceptance is not provided by the Eligible 
Employee by the specified date or that the Award will not Vest until they do so agree in the manner specified by 
the Board.  
 Right to refuse Award 
An Award Holder may by notice in writing to the Company within 30 days after the Award Date say they do not 
want their Award in whole or part. In such a case, the Award (or the relevant part of it) shall to that extent be 
treated as never having been granted.  
 No payment for an Award 
An Award Holder shall not be required to make payment for the grant of an Award unless the Board determines 
otherwise. Where an Award Holder refuses their Award pursuant to the terms of Rule 1.9, no payment in 
connection with the refusal is required from the Award Holder or the Board. 
 Awards non-transferable 
An Award shall be personal to the Award Holder and, except in the case of the death of an Award Holder, an 
Award shall not be capable of being transferred, charged or otherwise alienated and shall lapse immediately if 
the Award Holder purports to transfer, charge or otherwise alienate the Award. 
 Awards which are Restricted Shares 
This Rule 1.12 sets out specific provisions in relation to Restricted Shares. 
 
An Eligible Employee who is to be granted Restricted Shares must enter into a Restricted Share 
Agreement with the Board providing that to the extent the Award lapses, the Restricted Shares are 
forfeited and the Restricted Shares will immediately be transferred for no (or nominal) consideration to 
any person specified by the Board. The Restricted Share Agreement will also provide that, except for 
transfer on death of the Award Holder to their personal representatives or to the extent agreed by the 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 3 
 
 
Board (and subject to such conditions as it may decide), the Award Holder will not transfer, give 
security over or assign the Restricted Shares subject to their Award during the Vesting Period. 
 
The Award Holder must sign any document (including a blank stock transfer form) requested by the 
Board relating to the Restricted Shares. The Board may provide that the Award will lapse if any such 
document is not signed within any specified period. 
 
On or as soon as practicable after the Award Date of Restricted Shares the Board will procure that the 
relevant number of Restricted Shares are issued or transferred (including out of treasury or otherwise) 
to the Award Holder or another person to be held for the benefit of the Award Holder. 
 
Except to the extent set out in the Restricted Share Agreement, the Award Holder shall have all the 
rights in respect of Restricted Shares from the date of transfer until any date on which the Award 
comprising the Restricted Shares lapses (whether in whole or in part). 
2. 
Plan limits 
 General 
The aggregate number of Plan Shares over which Awards may be granted shall be limited as set out in this 
Rule 2. In the event of any conflict between the limits in this Rule 2, the lower limit shall prevail. 
 10 per cent in 10 years 
An Award may not be granted if the result of granting the Award would be that the aggregate number of Plan 
Shares issued or committed to be issued in the preceding 10 year period under: 
 
Awards under the Plan; or 
 
options or awards granted under any other Employees’ Share Scheme (whether or not discretionary) 
operated by the Group, 
would exceed 10 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at that time. 
 5 per cent in 10 years 
An Award may not be granted if the result of granting the Award would be that the aggregate number of Plan 
Shares issued or committed to be issued in the preceding 10 year period under: 
 
Awards under the Plan; or 
 
options or awards granted under any other discretionary Employees’ Share Scheme adopted 
by the Group, 
would exceed 5 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at that time. 
 Calculation  
For the purpose of the limits contained in this Rule 2: 
 
for as long as required by The Investment Association guidelines treasury shares shall be included in the 
limit as if they were new issue shares; 
 
there shall be disregarded any Plan Shares where the right to acquire the Plan Shares has lapsed or been 
renounced; 
 
there shall be disregarded any Plan Shares which the Trustees have purchased, or determined that they 
will purchase, in order to satisfy an Award or the exercise of an option or the vesting of other rights of 
an employee under any other Employees’ Share Scheme operated by the Group; and 
 
any Plan Shares issued or issuable in relation to an Award, or on the exercise of an option or the vesting 
of other rights of an employee under any other Employees’ Share Scheme operated by the Group, shall 
be taken into account once only (when the Award is granted or the option is granted or the right 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 4 
 
 
awarded) and shall not fall out of account when the Award Vests, the option is exercised or other rights 
vest. 
 Scaling down 
If the granting of an Award would cause the limits in this Rule 2 to be exceeded, such Award shall take effect as 
an Award over the maximum number of Plan Shares which does not cause the limit to be exceeded. If more 
than one Award is granted on the same Award Date, the number of Plan Shares which would otherwise be 
subject to each Award shall be reduced pro rata. 
3. 
Individual limits 
 General 
 The number of Plan Shares over which Awards may be granted to any one Eligible Employee shall be limited as 
set out in this Rule 3. 
 Limits 
An Award (other than a Recruitment Award) must not be granted to an Eligible Employee if the result of 
granting the Award would be that, at the proposed Award Date, the Market Value of the Plan Shares subject to 
that Award, when aggregated with the Market Value of the Plan Shares subject to any other Award (other than a 
Recruitment Award) granted to them in the same Financial Year, would exceed 200% of their Annual 
Remuneration. 
A Recruitment Award must not be granted to an Eligible Employee if the result of granting the Recruitment 
Award would be that, at the proposed Award Date, the Market Value of the Plan Shares subject to that 
Recruitment Award would exceed 300% of their Annual Remuneration. 
The limits set out in this Rule 3.2 shall not apply to Buy-Out Awards. 
For the purpose of this Rule 3.2:  
 
Annual Remuneration means the higher of: 
 
basic salary paid by the Group expressed as an annual rate as at the Award Date; and 
 
basic salary paid by the Group for the period of 12 months ending on the last day of the month 
immediately preceding the month in which the Award Date occurs. 
 
Financial Year means the financial year of the Company. 
 
The Market Value of Plan Shares subject to an Award shall be measured as an average over the three 
Dealing Days ending on the date on which that Award was granted. 
Where a payment of salary is made in a currency other than sterling, the payment shall be treated as equal to 
the equivalent amount of sterling determined by using any rate of exchange which the Board may, in its 
discretion, reasonably select. 
 Scaling down 
If the grant of an Award would cause the limits in Rule 3.2 to be exceeded, such Award shall take effect as an 
Award over the maximum number of Plan Shares which does not cause the limits to be exceeded. 
Where an individual is granted two Awards on terms that the exercise, Vesting or release of one will 
automatically result in a reduction to the extent to which the other may be exercised, Vest or be released and 
vice versa, then for the purposes of this Rule 3 it will only be necessary to take into account that number of Plan 
Shares which could be acquired in respect of those Awards having regard to those terms. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 5 
 
 
4. 
Award Price 
The Award Price (if any) shall be determined by the Board and may be any price.  
Where the Board has determined that an Award will be satisfied by the issue of new shares and the Award Price 
per Plan Share is less than the nominal value of a Plan Share, the Company will ensure that at the time of the 
issue of the Plan Shares arrangements are in place to pay up at least the nominal value of the relevant Plan 
Shares. 
5. 
Performance Target and conditions 
 
Setting of Performance Target and conditions 
The Vesting of an Award and the extent to which it Vests will be subject to the satisfaction of any applicable 
Performance Target and any other conditions set by the Board. 
The Board may in addition adjust the level of Vesting of an Award upwards or downwards (including for the 
avoidance of doubt to nil) after the application of any Performance Target and/or any other conditions set by 
the Board if in its opinion: 
 
the level of Vesting resulting from the application of the Performance Target and/or any other 
conditions is not a fair and accurate reflection of the performance of the Company, the Group or any 
Group Member(s); and/or 
 
the level of Vesting resulting from the application of the Performance Target and/or any other 
conditions is not a fair and accurate reflection of the performance of the Award Holder; and/or 
 
there is any other factor or there are any other circumstances which would make the level of Vesting 
resulting from the application of the Performance Target and/or any other conditions inappropriate 
without adjustment. 
The decision of the Board to make an adjustment under Rule 5.1 shall be final and binding. 
 Nature of Performance Target and conditions 
Any Performance Target and any other condition imposed under Rule 5.1 shall be: 
 
objective; and 
 
determined at the Award Date and notified in writing to the Award Holder. 
 Substitution, variation or waiver of Performance Target and conditions 
The Board may waive or change any Performance Target or any condition imposed under Rule 5.1 in 
accordance with its terms. 
If an event occurs which causes the Board to consider that any Performance Target and/or any other condition 
imposed under Rule 5.1 subject to which an Award has been granted is no longer appropriate, the Board may 
substitute, vary or waive that Performance Target and/or any other condition in such manner (and make such 
consequential amendments to the Rules) as: 
 
is reasonable in the circumstances; and 
 
except in the case of waiver, produces a fairer measure of performance and is not materially less difficult 
to satisfy than if the event had not occurred. 
The Award shall then take effect subject to the Performance Target and any other conditions as substituted, 
varied or waived. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 6 
 
 
 Notification of Award Holders 
The Board shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify each Award Holder concerned of any determination 
made by it under Rule 5.3. 
6. 
Malus  
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Rules, the Board may, at (or at any time before) the Vesting of an 
Award to which the Board has specified under Rule 1.4 that this Rule 6 applies, cancel or reduce the number of 
Plan Shares subject to an Award in whole or in part (including, for the avoidance of doubt, to nil) or impose 
additional conditions on the Award in the following circumstances: 
1. 
the Board forms the view that the Company or a Group Member materially misstated its financial 
results for whatever reason; 
2. 
the Board forms the view that in assessing any Performance Target and/or any other condition imposed 
on the Award was based on an error, or on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions; 
3. 
an Award Holder acts in a way that amounts to fraud or misconduct (as determined by the Board);  
4. 
a material failure of risk management of the Company, a Group Member or a business unit of the 
Group;  
5. 
the Company or any Group Member or business of the Group becomes insolvent or otherwise suffers a 
corporate failure so that the value of Plan Shares is materially reduced provided that the Board 
determines following an appropriate review of accountability that the Award Holder should be held 
responsible (in whole or in part) for that insolvency or corporate failure; or 
6. 
any other circumstances arise which the Board, acting fairly and reasonably, considers justify the 
operation of this Rule 6 (for example, but without limitation to, an Award Holder has by act or omission 
contributed to serious reputational damage to the Group). 
In determining any reduction which should be applied under this Rule 6, the Board shall act fairly and 
reasonably but its decision shall be final and binding. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any reduction under this Rule 6 may be applied on an individual basis as 
determined by the Board. Whenever a reduction is made under this Rule 6, the relevant Award shall be treated 
as having lapsed to that extent. 
7. 
Clawback 
 
Trigger Events 
In this Rule 7, a Trigger Event means:  
1. 
the Board forms the view that the Company or a Group Member materially misstated its financial 
results for a period that was wholly or partly before the end of the period over which the Performance 
Target applicable to an Award was assessed for whatever reason; 
2. 
the Board forms the view that in assessing any Performance Target and/or any other condition imposed 
on an Award was based on an error, or on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions; 
3. 
an Award Holder acts in a way that amounts to fraud or misconduct (as determined by the Board);  
4. 
a material failure of risk management of the Company, a Group Member or a business unit of the 
Group;  
5.  
the Company or any Group Member or business of the Group becomes insolvent or otherwise suffers a 
corporate failure so that the value of Plan Shares is materially reduced provided that the Board 
determines following an appropriate review of accountability that the Award Holder should be held 
responsible (in whole or in part) for that insolvency or corporate failure; or 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 7 
 
 
6. 
any other circumstances arise which the Board, acting fairly and reasonably, considers justify the 
operation of this Rule 7 (for example, but without limitation to, an Award Holder has by act or omission 
contributed to serious reputational damage to the Group). 
 Application 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Rules, if at any time during the period of two years following the 
Vesting of an Award to which the Board has specified under Rule 1.4 that this Rule 7 applies a Trigger Event 
occurs, then:  
 
Rules 7.3 to 7.6 and 7.8 shall apply; and 
 
where the Award takes the form of an Option and the Award Holder has not exercised such Option, Rule 
7.7 shall also apply. 
If an investigation into the conduct or actions of any Award Holder or any Group Member has started before the 
second anniversary of Vesting of an Award, the Board may, in its absolute discretion, determine that the 
provisions of Rules 7.3 to 7.9 may be applied to an Award until such later date as the Board may determine to 
allow that investigation to be completed. 
 Clawback methods 
Where Rule 7.2 applies, the Board may in its absolute discretion require the relevant Award Holder to: 
 
transfer to the Company (or, if required by the Company, any other person specified by the Company) 
all or some of the Plan Shares acquired by the Award Holder (or their nominee) pursuant to the Vesting 
of the Award or, in the case of an Award which is an Option, the exercise of that Option; and/or 
 
pay to the Company (or if required by the Company, any other person specified by the Company) an 
amount equivalent to all or part of the proceeds of sale or, in the event of a disposal of the Plan Shares at 
a price which the Board reasonably determines was less than market value at the time of disposal and 
where the disposal was not made at arm’s length, an amount equivalent to the market value (as 
reasonably determined by the Board) at the time of disposal of all or some of the Plan Shares acquired 
pursuant to the Vesting of the Award or, in the case of an Award that is an Option, the exercise of that 
Option; and/or 
 
pay to the Company (or, if required by the Company, any other person specified by the Company) an 
amount equivalent to all or part of the amount of any cash in respect of an Award paid to or for the 
benefit of the Award Holder; and/or 
 
pay to the Company (or, if required by the Company, any other person specified by the Company) an 
amount equivalent to all or part of any benefit or value derived from or attributable to the Plan Shares 
referred to in paragraph 1 above (including but not limited to any special dividend or additional or 
replacement shares) on such terms as the Board may reasonably direct. 
In determining the number of Plan Shares which the Board requires to be transferred or the amount which it 
requires to be paid under this Rule 7.3, the Board may at its absolute discretion take into account any tax and 
social security contributions actually paid (or due to be paid) by the Award Holder in respect of the acquisition 
of the Plan Shares and/or payment of cash in respect of an Award.  If the Board so exercises its discretion, Rule 
7.4shall also apply.  
 Award Holder’s obligation to recover tax 
In addition to the obligation of the Award Holder as described above, the Award Holder shall use their best 
endeavours to seek and obtain repayment or credit from HMRC or any relevant overseas tax authority of the tax 
and social security contributions paid on the Award Holder’s behalf in relation to the Award as soon as 
reasonably practicable and to notify the Company of such claim and/or receipt of any credit or payment by 
HMRC (or any relevant overseas tax authority) in this regard Following such notification the Company will be 
entitled to require the Award Holder to make a payment to it within 30 days of an amount equivalent to the 
amount of any payment or credit received from HMRC (or any relevant overseas tax authority). 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 8 
 
 
 Authorisation of deductions 
By accepting the grant of an Award, the Award Holder authorises the Company or such other Group Member as 
may be the employer of the Award Holder to make deductions from any payment owing to them including but 
not limited to salary, bonus, holiday pay or otherwise in respect of any sum which would otherwise be payable 
by the Award Holder under this Rule 7. 
 Additional methods of effecting clawback 
In addition to or in substitution for the actions described above that the Board may take under Rule 7.3 (the 
Actions), the Board may: 
 
reduce the amount (including, for the avoidance of doubt, to nil) of any future bonus payable to the 
Award Holder; and/or 
 
determine that the number of Plan Shares over which an award or right to acquire Plan Shares that may 
otherwise be granted to the Award Holder under any Employees’ Share Scheme operated by any Group 
Member (other than any tax-advantaged employee share plan that complies with the requirements of 
Schedules 2 or 3 of ITEPA 2003) shall be reduced by such number as the Board may determine 
(including for the avoidance of doubt to nil); and/or 
 
reduce the number of Plan Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, to nil) subject to any award or 
right to acquire Plan Shares which has been granted to the Award Holder under any Employees’ Share 
Scheme operated by any Group Member (other than any tax-advantaged employee share plan that 
complies with the requirements of Schedules 2 to 4 of ITEPA 2003) before the date on which the 
relevant award or right vests or becomes exercisable by such number as the Board may determine; 
and/or 
 
reduce the number of Plan Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, to nil) subject to any option to 
acquire Plan Shares which has been granted to the Award Holder under any Employees’ Share Scheme 
operated by any Group Member (other than any tax-advantaged employee share plan that complies with 
the requirements of Schedules 2 to 4 of ITEPA 2003) which has vested but not yet been exercised by 
such number as the Board may determine, 
provided that the total amount represented by: 
 
reductions under this Rule 7.6; 
 
reductions under Rule 7.7; and 
 
the amount represented by any transfer and any amount or value payable under Rule 7.3, 
shall not, in the Board’s reasonable opinion, exceed the amount represented by any transfer and any amount or 
value which would have been due if the Board had only carried out the Actions. 
 Reduction of unexercised Option 
Where Rule 7.2 applies and the Award takes the form of an Option which the Award Holder has not exercised in 
full, the Board may in its absolute discretion reduce the number of Plan Shares which remain subject to such 
Option (including, for the avoidance of doubt, to nil). In addition to or in substitution for reducing such Option, 
the Board may take any of the actions set out in Rules 7.6.1 to 7.6.4 provided that the total amount represented 
by reductions under Rules 7.6.1 to 7.6.4 and any reduction of the Option under this Rule 7.7 shall not, in the 
Board’s reasonable opinion, exceed the amount which would have been represented by the reduction of the 
Option only. 
 General provisions 
In carrying out any action under this Rule 7, the Board shall act fairly and reasonably but its decision shall be 
final and binding. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any action carried out under this Rule 7 may be applied on an individual basis as 
determined by the Board. Whenever a reduction of an award, right to acquire Plan Shares or option is made 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 9 
 
 
under this Rule 7, the relevant award, right to acquire Plan Shares or option shall be treated to that extent as 
having lapsed. 
 Interaction with other plans 
The Board may determine at any time to reduce the number of Plan Shares subject to an Award (including, for 
the avoidance of doubt, to nil) either: 
 
to give effect to one or more provisions of any form which are equivalent to those in Rule 7 (Clawback 
Provisions) contained in any Employees’ Share Scheme operated by any Group Member (other than 
the Plan) or any bonus plan operated by any Group Member; or  
 
as an alternative to giving effect to any such Clawback Provisions.   
The value of any reduction under Rule 7.9.1 shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the relevant 
Clawback Provisions in the relevant Employees’ Share Scheme or bonus plan as interpreted by the Board in its 
absolute discretion. 
The value of any reduction under Rule 7.9.2 shall be determined as if the terms of the relevant Clawback 
Provisions in the relevant Employees’ Share Scheme or bonus plan applied as interpreted by the Board in its 
absolute discretion. 
8. 
Vesting of Awards (and exercise of Options) 
 Earliest date for Vesting of Awards 
Subject to Rules 5, 10 and 11, an Award will Vest on a Dealing Day determined by the Board falling within the 
period of 30 days following the later of: 
 
the relevant date specified under Rule 1.4.5; and 
 
the date on which the Board determines that the Performance Target and/or any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 1.4.11 or Rule 5.1 have been satisfied. 
The Board may determine that Vesting of the Award shall be delayed until any relevant investigation or other 
procedure relevant to an event falling within the scope of Rule 6 or Rule 7.9  has been completed. 
The Board may in addition adjust the level of Vesting of an Award upwards or downwards (including for the 
avoidance of doubt to nil) after the application of any Performance Target and/or any other conditions set by 
the Board if in its opinion: 
 
the level of Vesting resulting from the application of the Performance Target and/or any other 
conditions is not a fair and accurate reflection of the performance of the Company, the Group or any 
Group Member(s); and/or 
 
the level of Vesting resulting from the application of the Performance Target and/or any other 
conditions is not a fair and accurate reflection of the performance of the Award Holder; and/or 
 
there is any other factor or circumstances which would make the level of Vesting resulting from the 
application of the Performance Target and/or any other conditions inappropriate without adjustment. 
The decision of the Board to make an adjustment under Rule 8.1 shall be final and binding. 
 Effect of Award Vesting 
Subject to the Rules, the effect of an Award Vesting shall be: 
 
in the case of an Option, that the Award Holder is entitled to exercise the Option at any time during the 
Exercise Period to the extent that it has Vested; 
 
in the case of a Conditional Share Award, that the Award Holder shall become entitled to the Plan 
Shares to the extent that the Award has Vested; and 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 10 
 
 
 
in the case of Restricted Shares, the restrictions set out in the relevant Restricted Share Agreement shall 
cease to apply to the extent that the Award has Vested. 
 No Vesting or exercise while Dealing Restrictions or Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy restrictions apply 
Where the Vesting of an Award is prevented by any Dealing Restriction, the Vesting of that Award shall be 
delayed until the Dealing Restriction no longer prevents it. Plan Shares may not be issued or transferred to an 
Award Holder while Dealing Restrictions prevent such issue or transfer.  In the case of an Option, the Option 
may not be exercised while Dealing Restrictions prevent such exercise. 
Where the Company has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy: 
 
the Vesting of an Award held by an Award Holder who is or was a director of the Company; 
 
the delivery of Plan Shares or payment of cash pursuant to the Vesting of an Award held by an Award 
Holder who is or was a director of the Company; and 
 
in the case of an Option held by an Award Holder who is or was a director of the Company, the exercise 
of the Option 
must where relevant fall within the scope of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy most recently approved by the 
Company in a general meeting prior to the relevant event in paragraphs 1 to 3 above. 
 Effect of cessation of Relevant Employment 
Subject to Rule 10, an Award shall Vest and an Option may be exercised only while the Award Holder is in 
Relevant Employment and if an Award Holder ceases to be in Relevant Employment, any Award granted to 
them shall lapse on cessation. This Rule 8.4 shall apply where the Award Holder ceases to be in Relevant 
Employment in any circumstances (including, in particular, but not by way of limitation, where the Award 
Holder is dismissed unfairly, wrongfully, in breach of contract or otherwise). 
An Award Holder who has given or received notice of termination of Relevant Employment (whether or not 
lawful) may not exercise an Option which has already Vested during any period when the notice is effective, 
unless the Board determines otherwise. 
An Award granted to an Award Holder who has received notice of termination of Relevant Employment 
(whether or not lawful) shall Vest during this period, unless the Board determines otherwise. If the Board so 
determines and the notice is withdrawn by the Award Holder’s employer, subject to the Rules the Award will 
Vest when the notice is withdrawn. 
An Award granted to an Award Holder who has given notice of termination of Relevant Employment (whether 
or not lawful) shall not Vest during this period, unless the Board determines otherwise. If the Board does not 
make such a determination and the notice is withdrawn by the Award Holder, subject to the Rules the Award 
will Vest when the notice is withdrawn. 
 Options may be exercised in whole or in part 
Subject to Rules 8.3, 8.4 and 15, a Vested Option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time. If exercised 
in part, the unexercised part of the Option shall not lapse as a result and shall remain exercisable until such 
time as it lapses in accordance with the Rules. 
 Procedure for exercise of Options 
An Option shall be exercised by the Award Holder giving notice to the Board (or any person appointed by the 
Board) in the form from time to time prescribed by the Board, which may include (for the avoidance of doubt) 
any electronic and/or online notification. Such notice shall specify the number of Plan Shares in respect of 
which the Option is being exercised, and be accompanied by either the Award Price (if any) in full or 
confirmation of arrangements satisfactory to the Board for the payment of the Award Price, together with any 
payment and/or documentation required under Rule 15 and, if required, the Award Certificate. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 11 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the date of exercise of an Option shall be the later of the date of receipt of a duly 
completed valid notice of exercise (or any later date as may be specified in that notice of exercise) and the date 
of compliance with the requirements of the first paragraph of this Rule 8.6. 
 Issue or transfer of Plan Shares 
Subject to Rules 8.3, 8.8 and 15 and to any necessary consents and to compliance by the Award Holder with the 
Rules, the Board shall as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event not later than 30 days after: 
 
the exercise date, in the case of an Option, arrange for the issue or transfer to the Award Holder (or a 
nominee specified or permitted by the Company) of the number of Plan Shares specified in the notice of 
exercise and make available to the Award Holder, in the case of the partial exercise of an Option, an 
Award Certificate in respect of, or the original Award Certificate updated to show, the unexercised part 
of the Option; and 
 
the Vesting of an Award, in the case of a Conditional Share Award, arrange for the issue or transfer to 
the Award Holder (or a nominee specified or permitted by the Company) of the number of Plan Shares 
in respect of which the Award has Vested. 
 Net or cash settling 
Subject to Rule 15, the Board may on exercise of an Option: 
 
make a cash payment as soon as reasonably practicable following the exercise of the Option to the 
Award Holder equal to the Gain on the date of exercise of the Option; or 
 
arrange for the issue or transfer to the Award Holder of Plan Shares with a Market Value equal to the 
Gain on the date of exercise of the Option (rounded down to the nearest whole Plan Share). The Award 
Holder shall not be required to make payment for these Plan Shares. 
Subject to Rule 15, the Board may on the Vesting of a Conditional Share Award make a cash payment as soon as 
reasonably practicable following Vesting  to the Award Holder equal to the Market Value of the Plan Shares in 
respect of which the Conditional Share Award has Vested, less the Award Price (if any). 
Where the Board settles an Award in the manner described in this Rule 8.8, this shall be in full and final 
satisfaction of the Award Holder’s rights under the Award. 
 Dividend equivalents 
An Award (except an Award comprising Restricted Shares where the right to dividends has not been waived) 
may include the right to receive an amount in Plan Shares, cash or such other form of payment as the Board 
considers appropriate on or following Vesting equal in value to the dividends which were payable on the 
number of Plan Shares in respect of which the Award has Vested during the period between the Award Date and 
the date of Vesting (or in the case of an Option the number of Plan Shares subject to the Option shall be 
increased as at the date of Vesting by the relevant value in Plan Shares).  
The Board may determine at its absolute discretion whether or not the method used to calculate the value of 
dividends shall assume that such dividends have been reinvested into Plan Shares, on such basis as the Board 
determines. 
The Board may decide at any time not to apply this Rule 8.9 to all or any part of a special dividend or dividend 
in specie. 
 US Taxpayers 
Schedule A shall apply to all Award Holders who are US Taxpayers (as defined in Schedule A). 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 12 
 
 
9. 
Holding Period 
 Definitions 
In this Rule 9: 
Holding Period Holder means a trustee or nominee designated by the Board in accordance with this Rule 9; 
and 
Holding Period Shares means Plan Shares which are or were the subject of an Award to which a Holding 
Period applies and in respect of which the Holding Period has not ended in accordance with this Rule 9. 
 Application 
This Rule 9 applies to the extent that some or all of the Plan Shares acquired on Vesting of an Award (or 
exercise of an Option) are subject to a Holding Period.  
 Issue or transfer to Holding Period Holder 
Instead of arranging for the issue or transfer of the Holding Period Shares to the Award Holder on Vesting of a 
Conditional Share Award or exercise of an Option under Rule 8.7, the Board may arrange for the Holding 
Period Shares to be issued or transferred to the Holding Period Holder, as designated by the Board, to be held 
for the benefit of the Award Holder. Any balance of the Plan Shares in respect of which an Award Vests or is 
exercised will be issued or transferred as described in Rule 8.7. 
If the Award took the form of Restricted Shares, the Holding Period Shares will be transferred to (or continue to 
be held by) the Holding Period Holder on the terms of this Rule 9. 
 No transfer during Holding Period 
The Award Holder or Holding Period Holder may not transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of the 
Holding Period Shares or any interest in them (and the Award Holder may not instruct the Holding Period 
Holder to do so) during the Holding Period except in the following circumstances: 
 
the sale of sufficient entitlements nil-paid in relation to Holding Period Shares to take up the balance of 
the entitlements under a rights issue; and 
 
the sale of sufficient Holding Period Shares to satisfy any liability to tax or employee social security 
contributions (or where Rule 15.2 applies, Employer’s NIC) arising in relation to Holding Period Shares. 
 Shareholder rights during Holding Period 
 
Unless the Board decides otherwise, the restrictions in this Rule 9 will apply to any cash or assets (other 
than ordinary dividends) received in respect of the Holding Period Shares and such cash or assets will 
be held by the Holding Period Holder until the end of the Holding Period. 
 
During the Holding Period, the Holding Period Holder will be entitled to vote and have all other rights 
of a shareholder in respect of the Holding Period Shares. 
 Ceasing Relevant Employment during the Holding Period 
Ceasing Relevant Employment during the Holding Period will have no impact on the provisions of this Rule 9, 
unless the Board otherwise decides, save where cessation is by reason of death in which case the Holding Period 
shall immediately be deemed to have ended. 
 Clawback 
For the avoidance of doubt, Rule 7 shall apply to the Holding Period Shares in the same way that it applies to 
any Plan Shares acquired by an Award Holder following Vesting of an Award or exercise of an Option which are 
not Holding Period Shares. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 13 
 
 
 End of Holding Period 
Subject to the provisions of this Rule 9, the Holding Period will end on the earliest of the following: 
 
the date set as the end of the Holding Period under Rule 1.4;  
 
subject to Rule 12.1, the relevant date on which an Award would have Vested under Rules 11.1 to 11.4; 
 
if the Board so allows, the circumstances in which any event described in Rule 11.5 would apply; and 
 
any other circumstances in the absolute discretion of the Board. Where this paragraph 4 applies, the 
Board may additionally determine that the Holding Period shall end only for such number of Holding 
Period Shares as it may specify. 
10. 
Vesting of Awards (and exercise of Options) in special circumstances 
 Death 
If an Award Holder dies, a proportion of each Award held by them which has not Vested will Vest immediately. 
The proportion of each Award which shall Vest shall be determined by the Board at its absolute discretion 
taking into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the 
satisfaction of any Performance Target as at the date of death and any other conditions imposed under Rule 5.1.  
Alternatively, the Board may decide that an Award held by the Award Holder which has not yet Vested will 
continue until the normal time of Vesting in which case any Performance Target and/or any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 5.1 shall be considered at the time of Vesting. 
Unless the Board in its absolute discretion decides otherwise (and irrespective of the time at which the Board 
has determined that the Award will Vest under this Rule 10.1), the number of Plan Shares which Vest will be 
reduced pro rata to reflect the number of whole months from the Award Date until the date of death as a 
proportion of the original Vesting Period. 
In the case of an Option, if an Award Holder dies, their personal representatives (having established title to the 
satisfaction of the Company) shall be entitled to exercise the Vested proportion of their Option (whether Vested 
under this Rule or otherwise) at any time during the 12 month period following death, or, if later, following 
Vesting or, in either case, during such other longer period as the Board determines. The Option shall lapse at 
the end of such period. 
 Ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement etc. 
If an Award Holder ceases to be in Relevant Employment by reason of: 
 
ill-health or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of the Board; 
 
redundancy within the meaning of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (any successor legislation or any 
applicable equivalent overseas legislation) evidenced to the satisfaction of the Board; 
 
retirement by agreement with the company by which they are employed; 
 
the Award Holder being employed by a company which ceases to be a Group Member or a Related 
Undertaking; 
 
the Award Holder being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking which is transferred to a 
person who is not a Group Member or a Related Undertaking; or  
 
any other circumstances if the Board decides in any particular case 
any Award held by them which has not Vested will continue until the normal time of Vesting and any 
Performance Target and/or any other conditions imposed under Rule 5.1 shall be considered at the time of 
Vesting.  
Alternatively, the Board may decide that an Award will Vest immediately in which case the proportion of the 
Award which shall Vest will be determined by the Board in its absolute discretion taking into account such 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 14 
 
 
factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any Performance 
Target as at the time of cessation and any other conditions imposed under Rule 5.1. 
Unless the Board in its absolute discretion decides otherwise (and irrespective of the time at which the Board 
has determined that the Award will Vest under this Rule 10.2), the number of Plan Shares which Vest will be 
reduced pro rata to reflect the number of whole months from the Award Date until the date of cessation of 
Relevant Employment as a proportion of the original Vesting Period. 
In the case of an Option, the Award Holder shall be entitled to exercise the Vested proportion of their Option 
(whether Vested under this Rule or otherwise) at any time during the period ending 6 months following 
cessation of Relevant Employment or, if later, following Vesting or, in either case, during such other longer 
period as the Board determines. The Option shall lapse at the end of such period. 
 Award Holder relocated abroad 
If it is proposed that an Award Holder, while continuing to be in Relevant Employment, should work in a 
country other than the country in which they are currently working and, by reason of the change, the Award 
Holder would: 
 
suffer less favourable tax treatment in respect of their Award; or 
 
become subject to a restriction on their ability to exercise an Option, to have issued or transferred to 
them the Plan Shares subject to an Award or to hold or deal in such Plan Shares or the proceeds of sale 
of such Plan Shares, 
the Board may, in its absolute discretion, determine that an Award will Vest immediately either in full or to the 
extent determined by the Board in its absolute discretion and subject to such conditions as it may require taking 
into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the period of time 
the relevant Award has been held and the extent to which any Performance Target and any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 5.1 have been met. Where the Award is an Option and has become Vested pursuant to this 
Rule 10.3, the Award Holder may exercise their Vested Option at any time during the period beginning 3 
months before the proposed date of their transfer and ending 3 months after the date of their actual transfer. If 
not so exercised, the Option shall not lapse but shall cease to be treated as having Vested and shall continue in 
force in accordance with the Rules. 
 Meaning of ceasing to be in Relevant Employment 
For the purposes of the Plan, an Award Holder shall not be treated as ceasing to be in Relevant Employment 
until they no longer hold any office or employment with any Group Member or Related Undertaking. In 
addition, unless the Board otherwise decides an Award Holder shall not be treated as so ceasing if within 7 days 
they recommence employment or become an office holder with any Group Member or Related Undertaking. 
The Board may determine that an Award Holder will be treated as ceasing to be in Relevant Employment when 
they give or receive notice of termination of their employment (whether or not lawful). 
 Interaction of Rules 
In the case of an Option: 
 
if the Option has become exercisable under Rule 10.2 and, during the period allowed for the exercise of 
the Option under Rule 10.2 the Award Holder dies, the period allowed for the exercise of the Option 
shall be the period allowed by Rule 10.1; and 
 
if the Option has become exercisable under Rule 10 and, during the period allowed for the exercise of 
the Option under Rule 10, the Option becomes exercisable under Rule 11 also (or vice versa), the period 
allowed for the exercise of the Option shall end on the earlier of the end of the period allowed by Rule 10 
and the end of the period allowed by Rule 11. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 15 
 
 
11. 
Takeover and other corporate events 
 Takeover 
Subject to Rule 12, where a person obtains Control of the Company as a result of making an offer to acquire 
Plan Shares, Awards shall Vest on the date the person obtains Control and the offer becomes wholly 
unconditional in all respects as set out below. 
The proportion of an Award which shall Vest will be determined by the Board in its absolute discretion taking 
into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the time the Award 
has been held by the Award Holder and having regard to any Performance Target and/or any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 5.1. 
In the case of an Option, the Vested proportion of the Option (whether Vested under this Rule 11.1 or otherwise) 
may be exercised at any time during the period of 6 months (or, if the Board determines a longer period shall 
apply, that period) beginning with the time when the person making the offer has obtained Control. The Option 
shall lapse at the end of such period unless the Board determines that a longer period for exercise shall apply, in 
which case the Option shall continue in force until the end of such extended period or until it otherwise lapses 
in accordance with the Rules. 
If the extent of Vesting of an Award which Vests under this Rule 11.1 has been reduced by the Board to reflect 
the period of time that the Award has been held by the Award Holder, the Board may determine that Rule 12 
shall apply to the proportion of the Award that did not Vest. 
 Compulsory acquisition of shares in the Company 
Subject to Rule 12, if a person becomes entitled or bound to acquire shares in the Company under sections 979 
to 982 of the Companies Act 2006, Awards shall Vest as set out below. 
The proportion of an Award which shall Vest will be determined by the Board in its absolute discretion taking 
into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the time the Award 
has been held by the Award Holder and having regard to any Performance Target and/or any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 5.1. 
In the case of an Option, the Vested proportion of the Option (whether Vested under this Rule 11.2 or 
otherwise) may be exercised at any time during the period beginning with the date the person serves a notice 
under section 979, or if there are more than one notice serviced under section 979 the date the person serves 
the last notice, and ending 7 clear days before the date on which the person ceases to be entitled to serve such a 
notice. The Option shall lapse at the end of the 7 days. 
If the extent of Vesting of an Award which Vests under this Rule 11.2 has been reduced by the Board to reflect 
the period of time that the Award has been held by the Award Holder, the Board may determine that Rule 12 
shall apply to the proportion of the Award that did not Vest. 
 Scheme of arrangement 
Subject to Rule 12, if a person proposes to obtain Control of the Company in pursuance of a compromise or 
arrangement sanctioned by the court under section 899 of the Companies Act 2006 Awards shall Vest on the 
date of the court sanction as set out below. 
The proportion of an Award which shall Vest will be determined by the Board in its absolute discretion taking 
into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the time the Award 
has been held by the Award Holder and having regard to any Performance Target and/or any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 5.1. 
In the case of an Option, the Vested proportion of the Option (whether Vested under this Rule 11.3 or 
otherwise) may be exercised at any time during the period of 6 months from the compromise or arrangement 
being sanctioned by the court. The Option shall lapse at the end of such period. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 16 
 
 
If the extent of Vesting of an Award which Vests under this Rule 11.3 has been reduced by the Board to reflect 
the period of time that the Award has been held by the Award Holder, the Board may determine that Rule 12 
shall apply to the proportion of the Award that did not Vest. 
 Winding-up of the Company 
If notice is given of a resolution for the voluntary winding-up of the Company, Awards shall Vest on the date the 
resolution is passed or the date notice is given. 
The proportion of an Award which shall Vest will be determined by the Board in its absolute discretion taking 
into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant including, but not limited to, the time the Award 
has been held by the Award Holder and having regard to any Performance Target and/or any other conditions 
imposed under Rule 5.1. 
In the case of an Option, the Vested proportion of the Option (whether Vested under this Rule 11.4 or 
otherwise) may be exercised at any time during the period of 6 months from the date of the notice or, if earlier, 
on completion of the winding up. The Option shall lapse at the end of such period. 
 Demergers and other events 
The Board may determine that Awards Vest if it becomes aware that the Company will be affected by a 
demerger, distribution (which is not an ordinary dividend) or other transaction not otherwise covered by 
the Rules. 
The proportion of an Award which shall Vest will be determined by the Board in its absolute discretion subject 
to such conditions as it may require taking into account such factors as the Board may consider relevant 
including, but not limited to, the time the Award has been held by the Award Holder and having regard to any 
Performance Target and/or any other conditions imposed under Rule 5.1. 
In the case of an Option, the Vested proportion of the Option (whether Vested under this Rule 11.5 or otherwise) 
may be exercised at any time during a period as shall be determined by the Board. The Option shall lapse at the 
end of such period. 
 Meaning of “obtains Control of the Company” 
For the purpose of Rule 11 a person shall be deemed to have obtained Control of the Company if they and others 
Acting In Concert with them have together obtained Control of it. 
 References to Board within this Rule 11 
For the purposes of this Rule 11, any reference in this Rule 11 to the Board shall be taken to be a reference to 
those individuals who were members of the Board immediately before the event by virtue of which this 
Rule 11 applies. 
 Vesting of Awards in advance of a corporate event 
Where the Board is aware that an event is likely to occur under Rule 11: 
 
in respect of which Awards will Vest in circumstances where the conditions for relief under Part 12 of 
the Corporation Tax Act 2009 may not be satisfied; or 
 
if the Board in its absolute discretion considers it appropriate, 
the Board may, in its absolute discretion and by notice in writing to all Award Holders, declare that all Awards 
that are expected to Vest as a result of the relevant event shall Vest (and in the case of any such Award which is 
an Option, shall be exercisable) in accordance with Rule 11 during such period prior to the relevant event as 
determined by the Board. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 17 
 
 
   Interaction with Rule 7 (Clawback) 
Where an event occurs under Rules 11.1 to 11.5 which: 
1. 
results in the Vesting of Awards; or 
2. 
would so result if there was any subsisting Award which had not already Vested or, in relation to an 
event referred to in Rule 11.5, if the Board had permitted Vesting of Awards under Rule 11.5 in relation 
to such event, 
the Board may, at its absolute discretion, determine in relation to any Award which was granted on the basis 
that Rule 7 applied to that Award that Rule 7 (Clawback) shall only apply to such Award to such extent (if at all) 
that the Board determines . Where the Board makes such a determination, it will specify which Awards such 
determination applies to (which may include Awards which have already Vested and Options which have 
already been exercised). 
12. 
Exchange of Awards 
 Where exchange applies 
An Award will not Vest under Rule 11 but will be exchanged for a new award (New Award) under this Rule to 
the extent that: 
 
an offer to exchange the Award for a New Award is made and accepted by the Award Holder; or 
 
the Board, with the consent of the persons acquiring Control if relevant, decides that Awards will be 
automatically exchanged for New Awards. The circumstances in which the Board may make such a 
decision include (but are not limited to) where an event occurs under Rules 11.1, 11.2, or 11.3 and: 
 
the shareholders of the acquiring company, immediately after it has obtained Control, are 
substantially the same as the shareholders of the Company immediately before the event; or 
 
the obtaining of Control amounts in the opinion of the Board to a merger with the Company. 
 Terms of exchange 
The following applies in respect of the New Award: 
 
The Award Date of the New Award shall be deemed to be the same as the Award Date of the Award. 
 
The New Award will be in respect of the shares in a company determined by the Board. 
 
In the application of the Plan to the New Award, where appropriate, references to “Company” and “Plan 
Shares” shall be read as if they were references to the company to whose shares the New Award relates. 
 
The New Award must be equivalent to the Award and subject to paragraph 5 below it will Vest at the 
same time and in the same manner as the Award. 
 
Either the Vesting of the New Award must be subject to performance conditions and/or any other 
conditions which are so far as possible equivalent to any Performance Target and/or any other 
conditions applying to the Award or no performance conditions will apply but the value of shares 
comprised in the New Award shall have substantially the same value of the number of Plan Shares 
which would have Vested under Rule 11 as applicable. 
13. 
Lapse of Awards 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Rules, an Award shall lapse on the earliest of: 
 
in the case of Options, the expiry of the Exercise Period; 
 
the Board determining that any Performance Target and/or any other conditions imposed under Rule 
5.1 has not been satisfied either in whole or in part in respect of the Award and can no longer be 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 18 
 
 
satisfied in whole or in part in which case the Award shall lapse to the extent that the Performance 
Target and/or any other conditions imposed under Rule 5.1 can no longer be satisfied; 
 
subject to Rule 10, the Award Holder ceasing to be in Relevant Employment; 
 
any date for lapse provided for under these Rules; and 
 
the date on which the Award Holder becomes bankrupt or enters into a compromise with their 
creditors generally. 
14. 
Adjustment of Awards on Reorganisation 
 Power to adjust Awards 
In the event of a Reorganisation, the number of Plan Shares subject to an Award which is an Option or a 
Conditional Share Award, the description of the Plan Shares, the Award Price or any one or more of these shall 
be adjusted in such manner as the Board, together with the Board where relevant, shall determine. 
In the case of Restricted Shares, subject to the relevant Restricted Share Agreement, the Award Holder shall 
have the same rights as any other shareholder in respect of Restricted Shares in the event of a Reorganisation, 
subject to compliance with applicable law. Any shares, securities or other rights allotted to an Award Holder for 
no consideration or with the proceeds of sale of such rights (but not with new consideration provided by the 
Award Holder) as a result of such Reorganisation shall be treated as if they were awarded to the Award Holder 
at the same time as the Restricted Shares in respect of which the rights were conferred and subject to the Rules, 
the terms of the Restricted Share Agreement and applicable law. 
 Award Price 
No adjustment shall be made to the Award Price which would result in the Plan Shares subject to an Option or 
Conditional Share Award being issued at a price per Plan Share lower than the nominal value of a Plan Share 
except where the Board puts in place arrangements to pay up the nominal value at the date of issue of the Plan 
Shares (or the difference between the adjusted Award Price and the nominal value as the case may be). 
 Notification of Award Holders 
The Board shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify each Award Holder of any adjustment made under 
this Rule 14 and explain how this affects their position under the Plan. 
15. 
Tax and social security withholding 
 Deductions 
Unless the Award Holder discharges any liability that may arise themself or provides undertakings relating to 
any liability required by the Board in advance of Vesting, the Board, the Company or any Group Member or 
Related Undertaking or former Group Member or Related Undertaking (as the case may be) may withhold such 
amount, or make such other arrangements as it may determine appropriate, for example to sell or withhold 
Plan Shares, to meet any liability to taxes or social security contributions in respect of such Award Holder’s 
Awards, including, where applicable, Employer’s NIC transferred under 15.2. The Award Holder will be 
responsible for all taxes, social security contributions and other liabilities arising in respect of the Award 
Holder’s Awards. 
 Transfer of Employer’s NIC 
The Board may, at its discretion and to the extent permitted by law, require the Award Holder to pay all or any 
part of the Employer’s NIC in relation to an Award. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 19 
 
 
 Execution of document by Award Holder 
The Board may require an Award Holder to execute a document in order to bind themself contractually to any 
such arrangement as is referred to in Rules 15.1 and 15.2 and return the executed document to the Company by 
a specified date. It shall be a condition of Vesting, and where applicable exercise, of the Award that the executed 
document be returned by the specified date unless the Board determines otherwise. 
 Tax elections 
The Board may, at its discretion, determine that an Option may not be exercised and/or the Plan Shares subject 
to a Conditional Share Award and/or the Plan Shares the subject of an Award comprising Restricted Shares 
may not be issued or transferred to the Award Holder (or for their benefit) unless the Award Holder has 
beforehand signed an election under Chapter 2 of Part 7 of ITEPA 2003 and/or section 165 of the Taxation of 
Chargeable Gains Act 1992 or entered into broadly similar local arrangements. 
16. 
Rights and listing of Plan Shares 
 Rights attaching to Plan Shares 
Except as set out in Rule 1.12 (Restricted Shares), all Plan Shares issued or transferred under the Plan shall, as 
to voting, dividend, transfer and other rights, including those arising on a liquidation of the Company, rank 
equally in all respects and as one class with the shares of the same class in issue at the date of issue or transfer 
save as regards any rights attaching to such Plan Shares by reference to a record date prior to the date of such 
issue or transfer. 
 Listing and admission to trading of Plan Shares 
If and so long as Plan Shares are listed on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange, the 
Company will apply for the listing and admission to trading of any Plan Shares issued under the Plan as soon as 
reasonably practicable. 
17. 
Relationship of the Plan to contract of employment 
 Contractual provisions 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan: 
 
the Plan shall not form part of any contract of employment between any Group Member or Related 
Undertaking and an Eligible Employee; 
 
the rights and obligations arising from the employment relationship between the Eligible Employee and 
their employer will be separate from, and not affected by, the Plan; 
 
unless expressly so provided in their contract of employment, an Eligible Employee has no right to be 
granted an Award and the receipt of an Award in one year (and the calculation of the Award Price in a 
particular way) is no indication that the Award Holder will be granted any subsequent Awards (or that 
the calculations of the Award Price will be made in the same or a similar way); 
 
the Plan does not entitle any Award Holder to the exercise of any discretion in their favour; 
 
participation in the Plan does not create any right to, or expectation of, continued employment; 
 
the benefit to an Eligible Employee of participation in the Plan (including, in particular but not by way 
of limitation, any Awards held by them) shall not form any part of their remuneration or count as their 
remuneration for any purpose and shall not be pensionable;  
 
if an Eligible Employee ceases to be in Relevant Employment for any reason, they shall not be entitled to 
compensation for the loss or diminution in value of any right or benefit or prospective right or benefit 
under the Plan (including, in particular but not by way of limitation, any Awards held by them which 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 20 
 
 
lapse by reason of their ceasing to be in Relevant Employment) whether by way of damages for unfair 
dismissal, wrongful dismissal, breach of contract or otherwise or anything analogous thereto in any 
jurisdiction; and 
 
this Rule 17.1 applies during an Eligible Employee’s employment and after the termination of an Eligible 
Employee’s employment, whether or not the termination is lawful. 
 Deemed agreement 
By accepting the grant of an Award, an Award Holder is deemed to have agreed to the provisions of these Rules, 
including this Rule 17. 
18. 
Administration of the Plan 
 Responsibility for administration 
The Board (and the Board, where appropriate) shall be responsible for, and shall have the conduct of, the 
administration of the Plan. The Board may from time to time make, amend or rescind regulations for the 
administration of the Plan provided that such regulations shall not be inconsistent with the Rules. 
 Board’s decision final and binding 
The decision of the Board shall be final and binding in all matters relating to the Plan, including but not limited 
to the resolution of any dispute concerning, or any inconsistency or ambiguity in the Rules or any document 
used in connection with the Plan. 
 Discretionary nature of Awards 
All Awards shall be granted entirely at the discretion of the Board. 
 Provision of information 
An Award Holder and, where the Board is not the Company, the Board shall provide to the Company or any 
Group Member or Related Undertaking as soon as reasonably practicable such information as the Company 
reasonably requests for the purpose of complying with its obligations under section 421J of ITEPA 2003 or 
similar requirements of local tax legislation. 
 Cost of the Plan 
The cost of introducing and administering the Plan shall be met by the Company. The Company shall be 
entitled, if it wishes, to charge an appropriate part of such cost and/or the costs of an Award to a Subsidiary or 
the Board. 
 Data protection 
For the purposes of administering the Plan, the Company will have access to and process, or authorise the 
processing of, Award Holders’ personal data (as defined in the Data Protection Act 2018, the EU General Data 
Protection Regulation 5419/16 and/or any implementing legislation (together, the Data Protection Laws)) 
held and controlled by the Company or any Group Member.  The Company and each Group Member will 
comply with the terms of the Data Protection Laws, and the Company’s data protection policies issued from 
time to time, in relation to such data. 
Any Group Member and its employees and agents may from time to time hold, process and disclose Award 
Holders’ personal data in accordance with the terms of the employee share plan privacy notice, the employee 
privacy notice and the privacy policy in force from time to time. The current versions of the applicable policies 
are available on the Company’s privacy sharepoint and on the online employee share plan portal (as applicable).   
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 21 
 
 
 Third party rights 
Nothing in these Rules confers any benefit, right or expectation on a person who is not an Award Holder. No 
such third party has any rights under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any terms of 
these Rules. 
 Employee trust 
The Company and any Group Member may provide money to the trustee of any trust or any other person to 
enable them to acquire Plan Shares to be held for the purposes of the Plan, or enter into any guarantee or 
indemnity for those purposes, to the extent permitted by Chapter 2 of Part 18 of the Companies Act 2006. 
19. 
Amendment of the Plan 
 Power to amend the Plan 
Subject to Rules 19.2 and 19.3, the Board may from time to time amend the Rules (including, for the purposes 
of establishing a sub-plan for the benefit of employees located overseas). 
 Amendments to the Plan 
Without the prior approval of the Company in general meeting, an amendment may not be made for the benefit 
of existing or future Award Holders to the Rules relating to: 
 
the basis for determining an Eligible Employee’s entitlement (or otherwise) to be granted an Award 
and/or to acquire Plan Shares on the exercise of an Option and/or to become absolutely entitled to Plan 
Shares subject to a Conditional Share Award (as the case may be) under the Plan; 
 
the persons to whom an Award may be granted; 
 
the limit on the aggregate number of Plan Shares over which Awards may be granted; 
 
the limit on the number of Plan Shares over which Awards may be granted to any one 
Eligible Employee; 
 
the adjustment of Awards on a Reorganisation; or 
 
this Rule 19.2, 
except for: 
 
an amendment which is of a minor nature and benefits the administration of the Plan; or 
 
an amendment which is of a minor nature and is necessary or desirable in order to take account of a 
change of legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment 
for participants in the Plan, the Company or some other Group Member or Related Undertaking. 
 Rights of existing Award Holders 
An amendment may not materially adversely affect the rights of an existing Award Holder except: 
 
where the amendment is made to take account of any matter or circumstance which the Board 
reasonably considers is a legal or regulatory requirement which the Board reasonably considers is 
relevant and requires an amendment to be made in order for any Group Member or Related 
Undertaking to comply with such requirement; or 
 
where the Award Holder affected by the change has been notified of such amendment and the majority 
of Award Holders affected by the change who have responded to such notification have approved the 
amendment. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 22 
 
 
20. 
Notices 
 Notice by the Board 
Save as provided for by law, any notice, document or other communication given by, or on behalf of, the Board 
or to any person in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered to them at 
their place of work, if they are in Relevant Employment, if sent by e-mail to such e-mail address as may be 
specified by them from time to time or, in the case of an Award Holder who remains in Relevant Employment, 
to such e-mail address as is allocated to them by any Group Member or Related Undertaking, or sent through 
the post in a pre-paid envelope to the postal address last known to the Company to be their address and, if so 
sent, shall be deemed to have been duly given on the date of posting. 
 Deceased Award Holders 
Save as provided for by law, any notice, document or other communication so sent to an Award Holder shall be 
deemed to have been duly given notwithstanding that such Award Holder is then deceased (and whether or not 
the Company has notice of their death) except where their personal representatives have established title to the 
satisfaction of the Company and supplied to the Company an e-mail or postal address to which notices, 
documents and other communications are to be sent. 
 Notice to the Board 
Save as provided for by law any notice, document or other communication given to the Board (or any relevant 
person appointed by the Board) in connection with the Plan shall be delivered by hand or sent by email, fax or 
post to the Company Secretary (or any relevant person appointed by the Board) at the Company’s registered 
office (or such other e-mail or postal address as may from time to time be notified to Award Holders) but shall 
not in any event be duly given unless it is actually received at the registered office or such e-mail or postal 
address. 
21. 
Governing law and jurisdiction 
 Plan governed by English law 
The formation, existence, construction, performance, validity and all aspects whatsoever of the Plan, any term 
of the Plan and any Award granted under it shall be governed by English law. 
 English courts to have jurisdiction 
The English courts shall have jurisdiction to settle any dispute which may arise out of, or in connection with, 
the Plan. 
 Jurisdiction agreement for benefit of the Company 
The jurisdiction agreement contained in this Rule 21 is made for the benefit of the Company only, which 
accordingly retains the right to bring proceedings in any other court of competent jurisdiction. 
 Award Holder deemed to submit to such jurisdiction 
By accepting the grant of an Award, an Award Holder is deemed to have agreed to submit to such jurisdiction. 
22. 
Interpretation 
 Definitions 
In this Plan, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions have the 
following meanings: 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 23 
 
 
Acting In Concert has the meaning given to that expression in The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers in its 
present form or as amended from time to time; 
Award means an Option, a Conditional Share Award or Restricted Shares granted under the Plan; 
Award Certificate means a statement in a form, which may include an electronic form, determined by the 
Company setting out details of an Award which is an Option or a Conditional Share Award determined in 
accordance with Rule 1.4; 
Award Date means the date on which an Award is granted in accordance with Rule 1.3; 
Award Holder means an individual who holds an Award or, where the context permits, their legal personal 
representatives. Where relevant, Award Holder(s) shall include reference to former Award Holder(s); 
Award Price means the amount (if any), expressed either as an amount per Plan Share or a total amount, 
payable in respect of the exercise of an Option 0r Vesting of a Conditional Share Award or for the acquisition of 
Restricted Shares under a Restricted Share Agreement, determined in accordance with Rule 4; 
Board means, subject to Rule 11.7, the board of directors of the Company or a duly authorised committee of it 
or a person duly authorised by the board of directors of the Company or such committee; 
Buy-Out Award means an Award granted to an individual which replaces elements of remuneration forfeited 
by the individual on leaving a previous employment to take up employment with a Group Member; 
Company means Drax Group plc incorporated in England and Wales under company number 05562053; 
Conditional Share Award means a conditional right under the Plan to acquire Plan Shares; 
Control has the meaning given to it by section 995 of ITA 2007; 
Dealing Day means any day on which the London Stock Exchange is open for the transaction of business; 
Dealing Restrictions means any restrictions imposed by legislation, regulation or any other code or guidance 
on share dealing with which the Company seeks to comply; 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy has the meaning given to it by section 422A(6) of the Companies Act 
2006; 
Eligible Employee means an individual who at the Award Date is an employee of a Group Member; 
Employees’ Share Scheme has the meaning set out in section 1166 of the Companies Act 2006; 
Employer’s NIC means employer’s secondary class 1 National Insurance contributions liability or any local 
equivalent; 
Exercise Period means the period set by the Board on the Award Date during which an Option may be 
exercised, ending no later than the 10th anniversary of the Award Date; 
Financial Conduct Authority means the “competent authority” as that expression is defined in Part VI of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; 
Gain means the difference between (i) the Market Value of a Plan Share on the date of exercise of an 
Option and (ii) the Award Price, multiplied by the number of Plan Shares in respect of which the Option is 
being exercised; 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 24 
 
 
Group means the Company and its Subsidiaries (and, for the purposes of Rules 5.1, 6, 7 and 8.1, its Related 
Undertakings) from time to time and Group Member shall be interpreted accordingly; 
HMRC means Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs; 
Holding Period means the period (if any) specified under paragraph 9 of Rule 1.4 (commencing from the date 
of Vesting of the relevant Award) during which the restrictions contained in Rule 9 apply; 
ITA 2007 means the Income Tax Act 2007; 
ITEPA 2003 means the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003; 
London Stock Exchange means the London Stock Exchange plc or any successor body; 
Market Value on any day means: 
 
if at the relevant time Plan Shares are listed on the Official List (or on any other recognised stock 
exchange within the meaning of section 1005 of ITA 2007 or the Alternative Investment Market of the 
London Stock Exchange), the closing middle market quotation (as derived from the Daily Official List of 
the London Stock Exchange or the equivalent list or record for the recognised stock exchange on which 
the Plan Shares are listed) or, if the Board so decides, the closing price on the preceding Dealing Day; or 
 
where Plan Shares are not so listed, the market value of a Plan Share calculated as described in the 
Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992; 
Official List means the list maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority in accordance with section 74(1) of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the purposes of Part VI of that Act; 
Option means a right to acquire Plan Shares granted under the Plan; 
Performance Target means a performance target imposed as a condition of the Vesting of an Award under 
Rule 5.1 and as substituted or varied in accordance with Rule 5.3; 
Plan means the Drax Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2020 as amended from time to time; 
Plan Shares means ordinary shares in the capital of the Company (or any shares representing them); 
Recruitment Award means an award granted to facilitate an individual’s recruitment to the Company or any 
Group Member; 
Regulatory Information Service means a service that is approved by the Financial Conduct Authority on 
meeting the Primary Information Provider criteria and is on the list of Regulatory Information Services 
maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority (or any overseas equivalent); 
Related Undertaking means an employer which is not a Group Member but is a subsidiary undertaking, 
associated undertaking or related undertaking or entity (in each case as determined by the Committee) of the 
Company designated by the Board for the purposes of the Plan; 
Relevant Employment means employment with any Group Member or any Related Undertaking; 
Reorganisation means any variation in the share capital of the Company, including but without limitation a 
capitalisation issue, rights issue, demerger or other distribution, a special dividend or distribution, rights offer 
or bonus issue and a sub-division, consolidation or reduction in the capital of the Company; 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 25 
 
 
Restricted Shares means Shares where the Award Holder is the beneficial owner of the Plan Shares from the 
Award Date subject to the Restricted Share Agreement; 
Restricted Share Agreement means the agreement referred to in Rule 1.12; 
Rules mean the rules of the Plan; 
Subsidiary has the meaning set out in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006; 
Trustees means the trustees of any trust created by a Group Member which, when taken together with the 
Plan, constitutes an Employees’ Share Scheme;  
Vest means: 
 
in relation to an Option, the Award Holder becoming entitled to exercise the Option; 
 
in relation to a Conditional Share Award, the Award Holder becoming entitled to have the Plan Shares 
issued or transferred to them (or to a nominee specified or permitted by the Company); and  
 
in relation to Restricted Shares means the restrictions set out in the Restricted Share Agreement ceasing 
to have effect, 
and Vesting and Vested shall be construed accordingly; and 
Vesting Period means the period from the Award Date to the normal date of Vesting. 
 Interpretation 
In the Plan, unless otherwise specified: 
 
save as provided for by law a reference to writing includes any mode of reproducing words in a legible 
form and reduced to paper or electronic format or communication including, for the avoidance of doubt, 
correspondence via e-mail; and 
 
the Interpretation Act 1978 applies to the Plan in the same way as it applies to an enactment. 
 
 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 26 
 
 
Schedule A  
Terms of Awards for US Taxpayers 
This Schedule A shall apply to all Award Holders who are US Taxpayers (as defined below).  In the event that an 
Award Holder becomes a US Taxpayer subsequent to the Award Date of an Award under the Plan, then such 
Award shall immediately be amended in a manner consistent with this Schedule A.  References in this Schedule 
A to Awards granted to US Taxpayers shall include Awards held by an Award Holder who becomes a US 
Taxpayer subsequent to the Award Date. 
A.1. 
Definitions 
In this Schedule A, the following definitions shall apply: 
Code means the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  References to the Code or 
to a particular section of the Code shall include references to any related Treasury Regulations and rulings to 
successor provisions; 
Conditional Share Award Short-Term Deferral Period means the period commencing on the date that 
a Conditional Share Award first is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture for purposes of 
section 409A of the Code and ending upon the fifteenth day of the third month following the end of the Taxable 
Year in which such Conditional Share Award first is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; 
Employer means, consistent with the definition of service recipient in section 1.409A-1(g) of the US Treasury 
Regulations: 
1) 
the Group Member employing the US Taxpayer; and 
2) 
all other entities with which the entity named in (i) would be aggregated and treated as a single 
employer under section 414(b) of the Code (governing a controlled group of corporations) and section 
414(c) of the Code (governing a group of trades or businesses under common control), as applicable.  To 
identify the group of entities described in the preceding sentence, an ownership threshold of 50% shall 
be used as a substitute for the 80% minimum ownership threshold that appears in, and otherwise must 
be used when applying, the applicable provisions of: (a) section 1563 of the Code and the US Treasury 
Regulations thereunder for determining a controlled group of corporations under section 414(b) of the 
Code; and (b) section 1.414(c)-2 of the US Treasury Regulations for determining the trades or 
businesses that are under common control under section 414(c) of the Code; 
Option Short-Term Deferral Period means the period commencing on the date that an Option first is no 
longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture for purposes of section 409A of the Code and ending on 
December 31st of the calendar year in which such Option first is no longer subject to a substantial risk of 
forfeiture; 
Separation from Service means a termination of services provided by a US Taxpayer to their Employer, 
whether voluntarily or involuntarily, as determined by the Board in accordance with the rules for determining 
when a service provider has incurred a separation from service under section 1.409A-1(h) of the US Treasury 
Regulations; 
Specified Employee means a US Taxpayer who, as of the date of their Separation from Service, is a “key 
employee” as defined in section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii), or (iii) of the Code (applied in accordance with the US 
Treasury Regulations thereunder and disregarding section 416(i)(5) of the Code) at any time during the 12-
month period ending on a “specified employee identification date” (within the meaning of section 1.409A-
1(i)(3) of the US Treasury Regulations), as determined by the Board in accordance with section 1.409A-1(i)(1) of 
the US Treasury Regulations. If a US Taxpayer is a key employee as of a specified employee identification date, 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 27 
 
 
the US Taxpayer is treated as a key employee for purposes of this definition for the entire 12-month period 
beginning on the specified employee effective date (within the meaning of section 1.409A-1(i)(4) of the US 
Treasury Regulations); 
Taxable Year means the calendar year, or, if later, the end of the taxable year of the Company, in which a 
Conditional Share Award first is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; 
US means the United States of America; 
US Tax means income taxation by the US; and 
US Taxpayer means an Award Holder who is subject to US Tax at the Award Date, is expected to become 
subject to US Tax following the Award Date or does become subject to US Tax following the Award Date but 
prior to the date upon which any part of an Award Vests.  US Taxpayers shall include US citizens working 
abroad, US resident aliens and other individuals rendering services in the US. 
A.2. 
Options  
Notwithstanding Rule 8.2 and any other Rule, and subject to Rule A.7, Options granted to US Taxpayers must 
be exercised no later than the end of the Option Short-Term Deferral Period (or the end of the applicable 
Exercise Period, if earlier).  For purposes of Rule 13, an Option granted to a US Taxpayer will also lapse at the 
end of the Option Short-Term Deferral Period. 
Notwithstanding Rule 8.4, and subject to Rule A.7, where a US Taxpayer has given or received notice of 
termination and the Award would have otherwise Vested and the notice is withdrawn, the Option Short-Term 
Deferral Period shall be determined using the original Vesting date and not the date when the notice is 
withdrawn. 
For purposes of Rule 8.6, the Company will be deemed to have received a valid notice of exercise for a Vested 
Option granted to a US Taxpayer that remains unexercised on the last day of the Option Short-Term Deferral 
Period, or if earlier, the last day of the applicable Exercise Period. 
For the avoidance of doubt, where Rule 10 or Rule 11 applies, the issuance and transfer by the Board of Plan 
Shares or a cash payment made by the Board, as applicable, to a US Taxpayer in respect of an Option shall be 
made no later than December 31st of the calendar year in which the relevant Vesting event occurs.  
A.3. 
 Conditional Share Awards  
For the avoidance of doubt and subject to Rule A.7, the issuance and transfer by the Board pursuant to Rule 8.7 
to a US Taxpayer of Plan Shares in respect of a Conditional Share Award that has Vested shall be made no later 
than the end of the Conditional Share Award Short-Term Deferral Period. 
For the avoidance of doubt and subject to Rule A.7, the cash payment made by the Board pursuant to Rule 8.8 
to a US Taxpayer in respect of a Conditional Share Award that has Vested shall be made no later than the end of 
the Conditional Share Award Short-Term Deferral Period. 
For the avoidance of doubt, where Rule 10 or Rule 11 applies, the issuance and transfer by the Board of Plan 
Shares or a cash payment made by the Board, as applicable, to a US Taxpayer in respect of a Conditional Share 
Award shall be made no later than the fifteenth day of the third month following the calendar year in which the 
relevant Vesting event occurs.  
A.4. 
Dividend Equivalents  
For purposes of Rule 8.9, any dividend equivalents that may be awarded on an Option granted to a US Taxpayer 
shall be subject to the same Vesting requirements of the applicable shares under the Option on which the 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 28 
 
 
dividend equivalents are accrued.  If the accumulated dividend equivalents Vest, they shall be paid to the Award 
Holder by the end of the Option Short-Term Deferral Period applicable to the shares of the Option on which the 
dividend equivalents are accrued.   
For purposes of Rule 8.9, any dividend equivalents that may be awarded on a Conditional Share Award granted 
to a US Taxpayer shall be subject to the same Vesting requirements of the applicable shares under the 
Conditional Share Award on which the dividend equivalents are accrued.  If the accumulated dividend 
equivalents Vest, they shall be paid to the Award Holder by the end of the Conditional Share Award Short-Term 
Deferral Period applicable to the shares of the Conditional Share Award on which the dividend equivalents are 
accrued.   
A.5. 
Substitution or Variation of Performance Target  
The Performance Target of an outstanding Award granted to a US Taxpayer may not be substituted or varied 
pursuant to Rule 5.3 if and to the extent that the substitution or variation of the Performance Target would 
result in the earlier ending of the applicable Option Short-Term Deferral Period or Conditional Share Award 
Short-Term Deferral Period.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may waive the Performance Target of 
an outstanding Award granted to a US Taxpayer pursuant to Rule 5.3. 
A.6. 
Dealing Restrictions and Holding Period  
For the avoidance of doubt, any deferral in the settlement of a Conditional Share Award or exercise of an Option 
pursuant to Rule 8.3 as a result of Dealing Restrictions will be administered in a manner consistent with section 
409A of the Code, including section 1.409A-2(b)(7)(ii) of the US Treasury Regulation allowing for a delay where 
a payment is reasonably believed to violate securities laws or other applicable laws.  
For the avoidance of doubt, any Holding Period under Rule 9 with respect to an Award granted to a US 
Taxpayer will not impose an additional or extend the existing substantial risk of forfeiture applicable to such 
Award for purposes of section 409A of the Code. 
A.7. 
Good Leavers 
For purposes of the application of Rule 10.2 to Awards granted to a US Taxpayer: 
 
to the extent that any amount or benefit payable hereunder is or becomes subject to section 409A of the 
Code, the concept of ceasing to be in Relevant Employment under Rule 10.4 will be interpreted consistently 
with the term “Separation from Service”; 
 
“ill-health or disability” shall mean the Award Holder is permanently and totally disabled within the 
meaning of section 22(e) of the Code; and 
 
The provision regarding “retirement by agreement with the company” shall not apply. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, to the extent that any amount or benefit payable hereunder is or becomes subject to 
section 409A of the Code and where a US Taxpayer ceases to be in Relevant Employment pursuant to Rule 10.2, 
an Option held by such US Taxpayer which has not Vested will continue until the normal time of Vesting and 
such Option must be exercised by such US Taxpayer no later than December 31st of the calendar year in which 
the such Vesting Period ends.  
For the avoidance of doubt, to the extent that any amount or benefit payable hereunder is or becomes subject to 
section 409A of the Code and where a US Taxpayer ceases to be in Relevant Employment pursuant to Rule 10.2, 
a Conditional Share Award held by such US Taxpayer which has not Vested will continue until the normal time 
of Vesting and the issuance and transfer by the Board of Plan Shares or a cash payment made by the Board, as 
applicable, to such US Taxpayer in respect of such Conditional Share Award shall be made no later than 30 days 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 29 
 
 
following the end of the Vesting Period, but in no event later than December 31st of the calendar year in which 
such Vesting Period ends. 
If any payment under an Award (or any portion thereof) that is subject to the requirements of section 409A of 
the Code arises due to the “Separation from Service” of a US Taxpayer who is a “Specified Employee,” such 
payment shall not be made within the 6-month period commencing on the date of the “Separation from 
Service,” and any such payment that would have been made during such period if not for the application of this 
rule shall be made on the earlier of (a) the expiration of the 6-month period and (b) the date of the US 
Taxpayer’s death. 
A.8. 
US Taxpayer Relocated Abroad 
Notwithstanding Rule 10.3, an Option granted to a US Taxpayer who is relocated abroad as described in such 
Rule may not be exercised after the earliest of (a) the date that is three months after the date of the US 
Taxpayer’s actual transfer date, (b) the end of the applicable Exercise Period, and (c) the end of the applicable 
Option Short-Term Deferral Period. 
A.9. 
Corporate Transactions 
Notwithstanding Rules 11 and 12, in connection with a takeover, other corporate event, or exchange of awards, 
the treatment of any awards will be administered in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 1.424 
of the US Treasury Regulations and section 409A of the Code. 
A.10. 
Tax Withholding 
Notwithstanding Rule 15.1, the Company or any Group Member or Related Undertaking or former Group 
Member or Related Undertaking (as the case may be) may withhold Plan Shares otherwise issuable to a US 
Taxpayer to satisfy maximum statutory tax rates in the US Taxpayer’s applicable jurisdictions. 
A.11. 
Changing the Terms of Awards for US Taxpayers 
The Board need not obtain the approval of the Company in general meeting for any minor changes to Awards 
that were granted to US Taxpayers which are necessary or desirable in order for the Awards to qualify for an 
exemption from or to comply with section 409A of the Code.  
A.12. 
Use of Trusts 
Plan Shares with respect to Awards granted to US Taxpayers may not be deposited to a trust or similar 
arrangement if such action would cause the Awards to violate section 409A of the Code. 
A.13. 
Interpretation and Administration Intent 
Awards granted and dividend equivalents payable to US Taxpayers are intended to be exempt from the 
requirements of section 409A of the Code under the short-term deferral exception described in section 1.409A-
1(b)(4) of the US Treasury Regulations, and the Plan and this Schedule A shall be interpreted and administered 
consistent with such intention.  To the extent that any amount or benefit payable hereunder is or becomes 
subject to section 409A of the Code, the Rules are intended to comply with the applicable requirements of 
section 409A of the Code so as to avoid any additional tax arising pursuant hereto. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Company nor any Group Member nor any Related Undertaking 
makes any representation, commitment or guarantee that any tax treatment will be applicable with respect to 
any Awards granted, or any Plan Shares issued or payment made, under the Plan or that such tax treatment will 
apply to a US Taxpayer. 
In the event of any conflict between an applicable provision of the Plan and an applicable provision of this 
Schedule A with respect to an Award granted to a US Taxpayer, the provision of this Schedule A shall apply. 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 30 
 
 
A.14.  
Miscellaneous 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, the Company will not be required to issue or cause to be 
issued any Plan Shares if at such time such issuance would violate the US federal securities laws or any other 
laws of the US or any state of the US, if applicable.  In addition, the holder of any Plan Shares agrees not to sell 
or transfer such Plan Shares in violation of the US federal securities laws or any other laws of the US or any 
state of the US, if applicable.  The Company shall have the right in its sole discretion to modify the terms of the 
Plan of this Schedule A at any time and from time to time as it deems necessary or appropriate to ensure or 
facilitate such compliance and to include appropriate legends on any Awards or Plan Shares issued or caused to 
be issued in connection with the Plan and this Schedule A. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained 
herein, an Award Holder located in the US may only receive an Award under the Plan if such Award Holder is 
employed by a Group Member or a Related Undertaking if such Group Member or Related Undertaking, as 
applicable, is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company (as determined by the Board under Rule 701 of the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended). 
 
 
 
 
Rules showing proposed amendments for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held on 27 April 
2022  
 
PwC ● 31 
 
 
Schedule B  
Employees of Related Undertakings 
The purpose of this Schedule B is to vary certain provisions of the Drax Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 
2020 (the Plan) to enable the grants of Awards to employees who are not employees of the Company or a 
Subsidiary of the Company but are instead employees of a subsidiary undertaking, associated undertaking or 
related undertaking or entity (in each case as determined by the Board) of the Company (a Related 
Undertaking).   
The rules of the Plan (the Rules), and for who individuals who are US Taxpayers (as defined in Schedule A), 
Schedule A, shall apply to an Award granted to an individual under this Schedule B who is an employee of a 
Related Undertaking except as set out below.  
1. 
In this Schedule B, the following definitions shall apply: 
Eligible Employee means an individual who at the Award Date is an employee of a Related 
Undertaking; 
Recruitment Award means an award granted to facilitate an individual’s recruitment to a Related 
Undertaking; 
Related Undertaking means an employer which is not a Group Member but is a subsidiary 
undertaking, associated undertaking or related undertaking or entity (in each case as determined by the 
Board) of the Company designated by the Board for the purposes of this Schedule B; 
2. 
The following definition of Annual Remuneration in Rule 3.2 shall apply: 
Annual Remuneration means the higher of: 
 
basic salary paid by any Related Undertaking expressed as an annual rate as at the Award Date; 
and 
 
basic salary paid by the Group and any Related Undertaking for the period of 12 months ending 
on the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which the Award Date occurs. 
 
 
