 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MILLBROOK POWER 
PROJECT 
Millbrook, 
Bedfordshire 
S47 CONSULTATION PLAN 
  May 2017 
www.millbrookpower.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                  1 
 
MILLBROOK POWER PROJECT 
 
S47 LOCAL COMMUNITY CONSULTATION PLAN, 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Millbrook Power Limited (“MPL”) proposes to develop a gas-fired power generation 
plant and connections to the electricity and gas networks on land located in Rookery 
South Pit, near the villages of Stewartby, Lidlington, Millbrook and Marston Moretaine 
in Bedfordshire (the "Project"). 
 
The proposed power generation plant would have a rated electrical output of up to 299 
MW of electricity. Using the latest and most efficient power generating technology, it 
would burn natural gas to generate electricity that is delivered into the National Grid. 
Due to its size, the gas-fired power generation plant would be a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project and as such it would require a Development Consent Order 
("DCO").  
 
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS  
The community consultation described is carried out under section 47 of the Planning 
Act 2008; the Act sets out requirements for formal pre-application consultation for 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects before they are submitted to the relevant 
Secretary of State for examination and determination.   
 
Section 47(1) of the Planning Act 2008 states that the applicant must prepare a 
statement setting out how it proposes to consult those people, who are living in the 
vicinity of all or part of the land to which the proposed application relates, about the 
proposed application. 
  
Furthermore, MPL is required to consult Central Bedfordshire Council ("CBC") and 
Bedford Borough Council ("BBC") on its proposed Statement of Community 
Consultation ("SoCC").  Once MPL has finalised its SoCC, it is required to make the 
same available to the public in a way that is reasonably convenient and must also 
publish a notice in the local press as to where and when the SoCC can be inspected. 
This plan sets out how MPL intends to meet these s47 consultation requirements. This 
plan is not itself required pursuant to the Planning Act 2008.  
 
2014 CONSULTATION 
MPL first announced its proposals for its power generation project in May 2014 and 
conducted its consultation activities in two phases:  an initial phase of consultation 
between May and September 2014 that included mailing of an introductory leaflet to 
c10,500 homes and businesses in the area surrounding the site, public exhibitions at 
three locations in the vicinity of the site (Lidlington, Stewartby and Marston Moretaine), 
meetings with CBC and BBC councillors as well as meetings with those parish councils 
that were within the project’s Core Consultation Zone ("CCZ").  MPL also shared its 
plans to the wider community via Parish Councils further afield, the two local 
constituency MPs, via social media and the internet, newspaper advertising and 
articles/broadcast reports, and via organisations that were a conduit to “hard to reach 
 
 
May 2017                                                  2 
 
groups” in the area.  Among the highlights of its work, MPL representatives addressed 
sixth form students at the Kimberley STEM College. 
 
Having agreed its Consultation Plan and Statement of Community Consultation with 
CBC and BBC, MPL conducted a period of statutory consultation between 13th 
October and 16th November 2014.  An information leaflet was distributed to homes 
and businesses in the CCZ, four public exhibitions were held at Stewartby, Lidlington, 
Marston Moretaine and Ampthill and there was once again local advertising and a 
series of media reports (print, TV, radio and social media). 
 
The choice of location for the exhibitions (in both phases of consultation) was decided 
upon following discussions with members of CBC and BBC. 
 
In addition, local councillors from CBC, BBC and eight parish councils attended an 
“outreach meeting” with the Planning Inspectorate which was organised and attended 
by MPL. 
 
The various consultation activities during 2014 helped inform the Project’s 
development and led to MPL’s decision to underground the electrical connection rather 
than connect the power generation plant to the National Grid via overhead lines and 
additional transmission towers. 
 
In March 2015, the Project was put on hold due to market and political uncertainty and 
both CBC and BBC were informed as were the parish councils and other interested 
parties in the area. However, MPL has recently re-started its work to secure 
development consent for the Project and as such has decided to conduct another 
phase of statutory consultation.  
 
1.0 PURPOSE 
a. This document explains how MPL once more intends to consult people living and 
working in the vicinity of the proposed up to 299 MW gas-fired power generation 
station, its associated gas and electrical connections and other related 
infrastructure on land located in and adjacent to Rookery South Pit. The land is 
situated in the Marston Vale between Milton Keynes and Bedford, approximately 3 
km north of Ampthill, a local market town, and 7 km south west of Bedford in Central 
Bedfordshire and Bedford Borough. 
 
b. The Project’s infrastructure includes a new purpose built access road, an 
underground gas pipeline connection and a new electrical connection (including 
underground cables) that would facilitate the export of power to the National Grid 
for distribution to homes and businesses.   
 
 
May 2017                                                  3 
 
 
c. Since December 2016, MPL, the development company for the Project at Rookery 
South Pit, has been a subsidiary company of Drax Group plc.  Drax Group is 
seeking to develop flexible gas fired power generation assets at three further sites 
in the UK to support the UK Government’s drive towards a low carbon economy: 
one at Eye Airfield in Suffolk, one near Aberdare in south Wales and the third near 
Felindre, also in south Wales. 
 
d. Stag Energy provides the resources to MPL through a management services 
agreement with Drax Group. Stag Energy was founded in 2002 and the company 
draws on a depth of experience with a team that has created and delivered over 
10,000 MW of power generation and related infrastructure projects across the 
globe, of which, 2,500 MW has been delivered in the UK. 
 
e. The details of the consultation methodology set out in this document aim to explain 
how MPL will satisfy the community consultation requirements for an application 
for a DCO under the Planning Act 2008 which, if granted, would enable the Project 
to be constructed and operated.  MPL intends to submit an application for a DCO 
which will be examined by one or more inspectors (known as an Examining 
Authority) who will be appointed by the Secretary of State for Business, Energy & 
Industrial Strategy (SoS) through the Planning Inspectorate.   It should be noted 
that the application will be accompanied by an Environmental Statement as the 
development is considered to be an Environmental Impact Assessment ("EIA") 
Development. A Preliminary Environmental Information Report ("PEIR"), reviewed 
and updated from 2014, will be produced and will describe, at a preliminary level, 
the likely significant environmental effects of the Project. The PEIR will be 
published and made available for public scrutiny and consultation in May 2017.   
 
 
f. As part of the DCO application, MPL is required to produce a Consultation Report 
explaining how the three strands of consultation required under the Planning Act 
 
 
May 2017                                                  4 
 
2008 (s421, s47 and s482) have been complied with.  MPL intends that its 
Consultation Report will include an explanation of how the relevant local authorities 
were consulted about the content of the SoCC and what the local authorities’ 
comments were.  The Consultation Report will demonstrate that the local 
authorities were given sufficient time to provide comments, explain how MPL had 
regard to those comments and provide evidence that the SoCC was made 
available and notified in the correct manner.  
 
g. The Consultation Report will also explain what activities were undertaken (in 2014, 
2015 and in 2017) to enable consultation with the local community, how those 
consulted responded and how MPL had regard to representations received in the 
development of the Project and the DCO application, prior to its submission to the 
SoS.  
 
h. This document does not set out how MPL intends to undertake the other strands 
of statutory consultation required by Sections 42 and 48 of the Planning Act 2008. 
 
 
2.0 THE PROPOSED SITE 
 
a. The site for the proposed Generating Equipment (which comprises part of the 
Project including the gas turbine generator) is located on land located within 
Rookery South Pit, a former clay pit and designated as Rookery Clay Pits County 
Wildlife Site (CWS). The site is adjacent to the proposed Covanta Energy from 
Waste project, which has been consented but has not yet been constructed.  
 
a. The site is located mostly within the local authority administrative area of CBC and 
in part within the administrative area of BBC. The proposed routes of the electrical 
and gas connections would be located in farmland to the south of Rookery South 
Pit within Central Bedfordshire, whilst part of the proposed access route, subject to 
                                         
1 Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008 requires consultation with certain local authorities, listed statutory consultees and those 
with an interest in the land on which the proposed Project will be built and operated or who may be particularly affected by it 
2 Section 48 sets out publicity requirements on a national basis 
 
 
May 2017                                                  5 
 
consultation, environmental and technical studies, resides within the administrative 
area of BBC. 
 
 
 
 
3.0 THE PROJECT 
 
The Project would comprise: 
 A new Power Generation Plant in the form of a Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
(SCGT) gas fired peaking power generating station fueled by natural gas and 
with a rated electrical output of between 50 and 299 Megawatts (MW) 
comprising: 
o The Generating Equipment including the Gas Turbine Generators and 
balance of plant, which are located within the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
o A new purpose built Access Road from to the Generating Equipment 
Site; and 
o During construction, a temporary construction compound (the Laydown 
Area). 
 The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Laydown Area are together 
known as the "Power Generation Plant", and are located within the Power 
Generation Plant Site 
 A new underground Gas pipeline Connection to bring natural gas to the 
Generating Equipment from the National Transmission System (NTS) which is 
located to the South of Rookery South Pit. The Gas Connection includes an 
underground pipeline of length approximately 1.8 km.; and 
 A new Electrical Connection (including underground cables) to export power 
from the Generating Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission 
System (NETS) for distribution to homes and businesses and which is also 
located to the South of Rookery South Pit.  
 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                  6 
 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection are together 
referred to as the ‘Project’. The land upon which the Project would be developed, or 
which would be required in order to facilitate the development of the Project, is referred 
to as the ‘Project Site’.  
 
 
4.0 CONSULTATION BACKGROUND 
 
a. MPL is committed to and has demonstrated an open and responsive consultation 
with local communities and interested parties.  Taking note of the 2014 
Consultation, the programme recommended within this document sets out a 
framework for a formal and inclusive consultation process.  
 
b. The draft SoCC appended to this document is designed to meet the legal 
requirements set out in section 47 of the Planning Act 2008 and follows a range of 
advice and guidance set out by the Planning Inspectorate and the Department for 
Communities & Local Government, as well as previous dialogue about public 
consultation with CBC and BBC (and feedback from local people) in 2014.  The 
consultation process is designed to enable informed, detailed and two-way 
communication. Through this process, relevant matters identified during 
consultation will be taken into account during the development of the proposal and 
before submission of the application for a DCO. 
 
c. Between May 2014 and March 2015, MPL has proactively communicated its 
intentions with elected representatives and directly within the local community, in 
order to introduce and discuss aspects of the Project.  These non-statutory 
information activities, the 2014 period of statutory public consultation and  
forthcoming initiatives will be captured in the Consultation Report that will form part 
of the DCO application.  
 
 
4.1 CONSULTATION AREAS 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                  7 
 
a. MPL proposes to carry out its consultation in two areas: a core consultation zone 
("CCZ") that equates to an approximate 5 km radius from the site of the Power 
Generation Plant (see map overleaf), and an outer consultation zone ("OCZ") that 
equates to a radius of 10 km.  The CCZ is defined by parish council boundaries 
closest to the 5 km radius. These consultation zones were chosen in 2014 following 
feedback from various elected representatives with whom MPL had been liaising 
and was in accordance with those used by Covanta for the Rookery South Energy 
from Waste Generating Station, even though the impact of the Project is expected 
to be considerably less than that of the Covanta scheme.    
 
b. The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of 
the Power Generation Plant Site that have the potential to be impacted by the 
Project’s construction and operation and expected to have the greatest interest in 
the Project. These include the villages of Stewartby, Marston Moretaine and 
Millbrook and the town of Ampthill, as well as other settlements within the CCZ.  
Whilst a 5 km buffer has been used as a guide, where settlements fall only partially 
within this area, discretion has been exercised.  
 
Proposed CCZ – approx. 5 km radius from the Power Generation Plant 
Site 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                  8 
 
 
Proposed OCZ – 10 km radius from the Power Generation Plant Site 
 
c. Whilst the Project Site is located directly within the CBC ward of Cranfield and 
Marston Moreteyne the following neighbouring wards also fall within the proposed 
CCZ: 
 
o Houghton Conquest and Haynes  
o Ampthill  
d) The proposed CCZ also includes wards within the neighbouring local authority - 
BBC. The following BBC wards fall within the CCZ: 
o Elstow and Stewartby  
o Wootton  
 
e) The CCZ would include all or parts of the following parish council areas: 
o 
Marston Moreteyne (CBC)    
o 
Houghton Conquest (CBC) 
o 
Millbrook (CBC) 
 
 
May 2017                                                  9 
 
o 
Ampthill (CBC) 
o 
Maulden (CBC) 
o 
Lidlington (CBC) 
o 
Stewartby (BBC) 
o 
Wootton  (BBC) 
 
    The CCZ will be MPL’s primary focus of activity when consulting about its plans.  
 
f) As in 2014, communities in the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via 
newspaper advertisements, posters, media coverage and direct contact with parish 
councils and other relevant local organisations in the OCZ) and will have the 
opportunity to comment on the plans.  The OCZ includes the main population area 
of Bedford. MPL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses that lie 
within the OCZ will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and 
operation although MPL recognises that they may be interested in it. In 2014, there 
was little interest or comment about the Project from elected representatives or from 
the general public within the OCZ.  
 
g) Communities outside the OCZ will be informed about the Project as the circulation 
areas and reach of the media (TV, radio, printed media) that will be used to 
communicate details of the Project and the consultation activities are far greater 
than the boundaries of the OCZ. 
 
 
5.0 2014 NON-STATUTORY AND STATUTORY CONSULTATION 
 
As an introduction to the Project, MPL undertook an introductory information 
programme and non-statutory consultation exercise in May/June 2014. This included:  
 
a. Discussions with officers and councillors at CBC and BBC about MPL's plans and 
proposed non-statutory consultation plans, including exhibition venues and 
organisations that should be invited. 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                  10 
 
b. As every home and business in the CCZ is represented by both a CBC councillor 
or a BBC councillor, and a Parish councillor, MPL communicated its plans (and 
information regarding the public exhibitions that were held between June 5th – 7th 
2014) to CBC and BBC, as well as the then MP Nadine Dorries for Mid-
Bedforshire, and Richard Fuller MP (whose constituency partially falls within the 
CCZ).  MPL met Nadine Dorries MP on two occasions to discuss the Project and 
answer her questions. 
 
c. As part of the non-statutory consultation, a Project website was launched to 
coincide with the Project being introduced to the local community. The website 
(www.millbrookpower.co.uk) provides information on the Project and enables 
people to ask questions and provide feedback to MPL about the Project.   
 
d. As part of the non-statutory consultation, a letter of introduction about the Project 
was sent to approximately 10,000 households and businesses within an 
approximate 5 km radius of the Project Site (i.e an area very closely aligned with 
the CCZ). The letter contained details about the Project and an invitation to attend 
information exhibitions near the Project site. The letter was sent and distributed by 
Royal Mail a week prior to the first exhibition date. 
 
e. As part of the non-statutory consultation in 2014, exhibitions were held at the 
following locations to give local people the maximum opportunity to attend:  
 
o Thursday, June 5th - Lidlington Village Hall (4.00pm till 7.30pm) 
o Friday, June 6th - Stewartby Village Hall (3.00pm till 7.00pm) 
o Saturday, June 7th - Marston Moreteyne Village Hall (10.00am till 1.00pm) 
 
f. 
Exhibition locations were chosen because they were considered convenient to 
those communities within the CCZ that surrounds the proposed Power Generation 
Plant Site. These events featured relevant information that was known at the time 
in a variety of formats (display panels, maps, plans, leaflet etc.) about the 
proposal.  Members of the MPL project team were available to discuss the 
proposal, answer questions and to receive feedback from members of the public. 
Feedback as to whether MPL should do anything differently during the statutory 
 
 
May 2017                                                  11 
 
consultation process that followed in October/November 2014 was sought during 
the informal information period/non-statutory consultation about the Project. 
 
g. MPL used venues that met Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and 
upon a reasonable and timely request had provisions in place for those with 
special requirements who were unable to attend or access a consultation event 
(for example, private transport to the exhibition event).  
 
h. More than 250 people attended the exhibitions, including local councillors.  The 
local media (print, TV, radio and social media) published news reports about the 
exhibitions in advance of them being held as well as afterwards.  
 
i. 
MPL issued press releases before and after the exhibitions were held, and these 
were posted on the MPL website.  The press releases were issued to the local 
media including parish council newsletters, and news reports were published in 
the media as a result of receiving them from MPL.  
 
j. 
MPL advertised the informal information/non-statutory consultation exhibitions via 
a display advertisement in the Bedfordshire on Sunday newspaper, published on 
June 1st 2014.  
 
k. A leaflet about the Project was produced for people who attended the exhibition, 
and additional copies were provided to local councilors and others for wider 
dissemination. The leaflet contained details of the Project, the consultation 
process, an indicative timeframe for the Project’s development and the Millbrook 
Power website address and contact details.  In addition, a Feedback form was 
available for people to fill in on the day or to return via Freepost to MPL.  
 
l. 
Posters advertising the non-statutory consultation events were displayed on 
parish noticeboards and other community venues within the CCZ, for example 
local libraries, local shops and post offices and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
m. Since May 2014, the MPL website has carried information about the Project 
(technical, environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism 
 
 
May 2017                                                  12 
 
to enable people to ask questions and provide feedback.  The website address 
was provided to CBC, BBC and parish councils for inclusion on parish websites, 
newsletters and other local information material. 
 
n. MPL will once again consider the provision, upon request, of written materials 
about the Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
o. Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were 
accepted during the periods of non-statutory and statutory consultation in 2014.  
 
 
6.0 2014 STATUTORY CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY & ACCESSIBILITY 
The period of statutory consultation was conducted between October 13th and 16th 
November 2014 (a 35 day period): 
 
a. MPL consulted officers at CBC and BBC on the content of the SoCC. 
 
b. MPL engaged with elected members of CBC, BBC, parish councils, the then local 
MP Nadine Dorries and Richard Fuller MP whose constituency lies within the CCZ. 
 
c. MPL used elected members of CBC, BBC and parish councils as communication 
channels, via meetings and correspondence, to share information and seek 
community feedback during the period of statutory consultation.   
 
d. Exhibitions/consultation events were held at the following locations: 
 
• 
Marston Moretaine Village Hall, 31st October (1500 to 1900hrs)  
• 
Stewartby Village Hall, 1st November (0900 to 1300hrs)  
• 
Ampthill Masonic Centre, Ampthill, 3rd November (1600 to 2000hrs) 
• 
Lidlington Village Hall, 4th November (1100 to 1500hrs)   
 
After consideration of the outcomes of the non-statutory consultation process these 
venues were considered the most convenient to those communities within the CCZ 
 
 
May 2017                                                  13 
 
that surround the proposed Power Generation Plant Site. These events featured 
relevant information in a variety of formats (display panels, plans, leaflet etc) about 
the proposal and copies of the Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
(PEIR) were made available.  Members of the MPL project team were available to 
discuss the proposal, answer questions and to receive feedback from members of 
the public.  About 175 people attended the public exhibitions. 
 
e. In order to ensure that people had the maximum opportunity to attend the 
exhibitions, MPL arranged for them to be held at the above convenient locations 
and at a variety of times. An event was held on a Saturday (at Stewartby) for those 
unable to visit during the working week. 
 
f. MPL used venues that met Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and 
made provision for those with special requirements who were unable to attend or 
access a consultation event (for example, private transport to a consultation event).  
 
g. In consultation with CBC and BBC, MPL shared information about the Project with 
those “hard to reach groups” living and working within the CCZ. These groups were 
accessed through informal and formal channels - via council services (for example, 
Central Bedfordshire Together, Bedford Borough Partnership, and others) and 
relevant specialist organisations (for example the Marston Moreteyne Action 
Group, local branches of the Women’s Institute, and local business representative 
groups such as the Bedfordshire Chamber of Commerce).   
 
h. Social media was used to reach the younger members of the community, whilst 
MPL gave one presentation to a local college about the Project. Local schools and 
colleges were notified of the consultation events. 
 
i. MPL advertised the consultation events via local and regional newspapers 
(Bedfordshire on Sunday, Bedford Borough Times & Citizen), for two weeks prior 
to the first event taking place.  In addition MPL announced via the issue of press 
releases to parish, local and regional news publications, the local radio and TV 
stations (and via online media) that the events were taking place.  The newspaper 
 
 
May 2017                                                  14 
 
advertisements (and media coverage) reached the CCZ, the OCZ and further 
afield. The content gave information on MPL’s proposals and details of the 
consultation events, including contact information.   
 
j. A leaflet about the Project and the consultation programme was distributed to 
households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ some two weeks in advance 
of the first consultation event, informing them of the consultation events taking 
place. The leaflet included details of the Project, the location and dates of the 
consultation events, the MPL website address, and a comments/questions card 
that could be returned Freepost.    
 
k. Posters advertising the consultation events were displayed on parish noticeboards 
and other community venues within the CCZ and the OCZ, for example local 
libraries, local shops and post offices, local schools and colleges and doctors’ 
surgeries. 
 
l. MPL informed those parish councils within the OCZ about the Project and the 
exhibition/consultation event via email. 
 
m. The MPL team proactively and reactively met with individuals and interested 
groups in the local area as part of the formal consultation period to answer 
questions and provide updates about the Project.  
 
 
n. Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were 
considered and addressed where possible, as well as comments noted.  The 
statutory consultation lasted for a period of 35 days. Relevant responses during 
the 2014 Statutory Consultation have been filed, had regard to and will be referred 
to in the Consultation Report that will accompany the DCO application.   
 
 
7.0 2017 CONSULTATION 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                  15 
 
Taking note of the comments and feedback that were received about the Project 
during the 2014 consultations, MPL proposes a series of meetings with elected 
members of CBC and BBC, meetings with the parish councils that are located in the 
CCZ and the local MPs, followed by a single phase of public statutory consultation 
about the Project. This period of statutory consultation will follow similar lines to the 
consultation activities that were carried out in 2014 namely: 
 
a. MPL will use elected members of CBC, BBC and parish councils in the CCZ 
and OCZ as communication channels to share information and seek community 
feedback during the period of statutory consultation.   
 
b. Exhibitions/consultation events will be held between June 8th and June 13th at 
the following locations: 
 
Friday 9th June        
1500 -1930 
Marston Moretaine Village Hall, Bedford Road, 
Marston Moretaine, MK43 0LD 
Saturday 10th June       
0900 - 1300 
Stewartby Club, Stewartby Way, Stewartby, MK43 
9NB 
Monday 12th June       
1600 - 2000 
Wingfield Club, 37 Church St, Ampthill, Bedford 
MK45 2PL 
Tuesday 13th June       
1230 - 1530 
Lidlington Village Hall, High Street, Lidlington, MK43 
0RT 
 
c. These events will feature relevant information in a variety of formats (display 
panels, plans, photomontages etc.) about the Project and copies of the 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) will be made available.  
Members of the MPL Project team will be available to discuss the proposal, 
answer questions and to receive feedback from members of the public, 
 
d. In order to ensure that people have the maximum opportunity to attend the 
exhibitions, MPL will once again arrange for them to be held at the above 
convenient locations and at a variety of times. An event will be held on a 
Saturday for those unable to visit during the working week. 
 
e. The venues meet Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and MPL will 
make provision for those with special requirements who are unable to attend or 
 
 
May 2017                                                  16 
 
access a consultation event (for example, private transport to a consultation 
event).  
 
f. MPL will again share information about the Project with those “hard to reach 
groups” living and working within the CCZ.  
 
g. Social media will again be used to reach the younger members of the 
community, whilst MPL will be willing to give presentations about the Project to 
local colleges and schools. Local schools and colleges will again be notified of 
the consultation events. 
 
h. MPL will advertise the consultation events via local and regional newspapers 
(Bedfordshire on Sunday, Bedford Borough Times & Citizen), for two weeks 
prior to the first event taking place.  In addition MPL will issue press releases to 
parish, local and regional news publications, the local radio and TV stations 
(and via online media) to give additional publicity to the events taking place.  
The newspaper advertisements (and media coverage) will reach the CCZ, the 
OCZ and further afield. The content will be key information on MPL’s proposals 
and details of the consultation events, including contact information.   
 
i. A leaflet about the Project and the consultation programme will be distributed 
to c13,000 households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ some two weeks 
in advance of the first consultation event, informing them of the consultation 
events taking place. The leaflet will include details of the Project, the location 
and dates of the consultation events, the MPL website address, and a 
comments/questions card that could be returned Freepost.    
 
j. Posters advertising the consultation events will be displayed on parish 
noticeboards and other community venues within the CCZ and the OCZ, for 
example local libraries, local shops and post offices, local schools and colleges 
and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
k. MPL will inform those parish councils within the OCZ about the Project and the 
exhibition/consultation events via email. 
 
 
May 2017                                                  17 
 
 
l. MPL will meet with individuals and interested groups in the local area as part of 
the formal consultation period to answer questions and provide updates about 
the Project.  
 
m. Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post or email) will be 
considered and addressed where possible, as well as comments noted.  The 
2017 period of statutory consultation will last for a period of 35 days, and the 
outcomes (along with the outcomes of the 2014 Statutory Consultation) will be 
referred to in the Consultation Report that will accompany the DCO application.   
 
n. Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, a Consultation Document that will explain the 
Project as well as the proposed amendments to the Rookery South (Resource 
Recovery Facility) Order 2011, the Preliminary Environmental Information 
Report3 (PEIR) and the Non-Technical Summary as well as other information 
about the Project will be available (in addition to the main council offices of 
Central Bedfordshire Council and Bedford Borough Council’s Customer Service 
Centre) at Marston Vale Forest Centre, Marston Moretaine, MK43 0PR which 
is open seven days a week between 10.00am and 4.00pm, as well as the 
following libraries: 
 
Bedford Library 
Harpur Street, Bedford, MK40 1PG 
Mon/Tues/Wed/Fri  09.00 – 18.00 
Thurs                     09.00 – 13.00 
Sat                         09.00 – 17.00 
Sun                        Closed 
Ampthill Library, 
1 Dunstable Street, Ampthill, Bedford, MK45 2NL 
Mon/Wed/Fri          10.00 – 18.00 
Tues                      Closed 
Thurs                     14.00 – 18.00 
Sat                         10.00 – 13.00 
Sun                        Closed 
Wootton Library 
Lorraine Road, Wootton, MK43 9LH 
Mon/Fri                  14.00 – 18.00 
Tues                      Closed 
                                         
3 Note that the technical appendices to the PEIR will be provided electronically at the libraries, council offices 
and the Forest Centre. Printed copies will be available to view at the public exhibitions. 
 
 
May 2017                                                  18 
 
Wed                      10.00 – 1300 / 
                             1400 -18.30 
Thurs                     Closed 
Sat                         10.00 – 13.00 
Sun                        Closed 
o. MPL is aware of several housing developments at different stages of 
developement within the CCZ. MPL will engage with developers and provide 
leaflets such that prospective home owners will be aware of the project.    
 
