Chapter 8
Ecology
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-1 
 
CONTENTS 
8. 
Ecology .............................................................................................................. 3 
8.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 3 
8.2 Changes since the 2014 PEIR .................................................................. 3 
8.3 Legislation, Policy and Guidance .............................................................. 5 
8.4 Methodology ............................................................................................ 18 
8.5 Baseline Environment ............................................................................. 34 
8.6 Embedded Mitigation ............................................................................... 68 
8.7 Assessment of Effects ............................................................................. 69 
8.8 Mitigation and Monitoring ........................................................................ 94 
8.9 Residual Effects .................................................................................... 100 
8.10 Cumulative Effects ................................................................................ 127 
8.11 Conclusions and Next Steps ................................................................. 127 
8.12 References ............................................................................................ 128 
 
TABLES 
Table 8-1: A summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Ecology Assessment 4 
Table 8-2: Summary of relevant legislation with regards to designated sites ............. 5 
Table 8-3: Summary of relevant legislation with regards to protected and priority species 7 
Table 8-4: Summary of relevant local planning policies ............................................ 16 
Table 8-5: A Summary of Field Surveys and their Limitations................................... 20 
Table 8-6: Summary of consultation responses that have informed the scope and 
methodology of the ecological assessment .............................................................. 26 
Table 8-7: Evaluation of Value .................................................................................. 31 
Table 8-8: Statutory designated sites ....................................................................... 36 
Table 8-9: Non-statutory designated sites ................................................................ 42 
Table 8-10: Phase 1 Habitats within the Project Site boundary ................................ 48 
Table 8-11: Notable and Priority beetle, butterfly and moth species from within the Project 
Site boundary ........................................................................................................... 51 
Table 8-12: Number of bat passes (B) and relative activity (B/h) at automated detector 
locations from the 2014 survey ................................................................................ 58 
Table 8-13: The relative activity of bat species recorded at all detector locations .... 58 
Table 8-14: Number of passes (B) and relative activity (B/h) of bats at each detector 
location ..................................................................................................................... 59 
Table 8-17: Evaluation of Ecological Features ......................................................... 62 
Table 8-16: Ecology summary of effects arising during construction phase ........... 101 
Table 8-17: Ecology summary of effects arising during operational phase ............. 123 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-2 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 8.1: BSG Ecology 2014 boundary & 2017 Project Site boundary 
Figure 8.2 – 8.3: Designated Sites 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix 8.1: Preliminary Ecological Appraisal Report. 
Appendix 8.2: NVC Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.3: Invertebrate Survey Report 
Appendix 8.4: Great Crested Newt Survey Report 
Appendix 8.5: Reptile Survey Report 
Appendix 8.6: Breeding Bird Surey Report 
Appendix 8.7: Bat Roost and Walked Activity Transect Survey Report 
Appendix 8.8: Bat Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.9: Dormouse Survey Report 
Appendix 8.10: Otter and Water Vole Survey Report 
Appendix 8.11: Badger Survey Report (Confidential) 
Appendix 8.12: Arboricutural Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.13: Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 2014 
Appendix 8.14: Otter and Water Vole Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.15: Final Dormouse Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.16: Breeding Bird Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.17: Great Crested Newt Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.18: Reptile Survey Report 2014 
Appendix 8.19: Invasive Plant Species Survey Report 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-3 
 
8. 
Ecology 
8.1 
Introduction 
8.1.1 
This chapter provides an assessment of the likely significant ecological effects 
arising from construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the 
Project.  
8.1.2 
A detailed description of the Project and Project Site is provided in Chapter 3: 
Project and Site Description. A glossary of terms and list of abbreviations used in 
this chapter is provided at the start of this PEIR.  
8.1.3 
Potential effects on the valued ecological features are interrelated with effects from 
air quality, noise, water quality, landscape and lighting.  This chapter should be 
read in conjunction with Chapter 6: Air Quality, Chapter 7: Noise and Vibration, 
Chapter 9: Water Quality and Resources, Chapter 11: Landscape and Visual 
Effects and Chapter 17: Cumulative Impacts.  
8.1.4 
Previous ecological surveys have been undertaken by BSG Ecology in 2014 and 
the baseline reports are contained within the Appendices referred to thought this 
chapter.  It should be noted that the current boundary of the Project Site is now 
smaller than the site boundary used by BSG Ecology and Parsons Brinckerhoff.  
The current Project Site boundary is fully within the previous site boundary and 
therefore the surveys previously undertaken have captured the current Project Site 
boundary (Figure 8.1).  A summary of the previous reports utilised in this 
assessment is contained within Section 8.4.  
 Objectives of the Assessment 
a)
8.1.5 
The aims of the ecology assessment are to:  
 
Identify relevant ecological features (i.e. designated sites, habitats, species or 
ecosystems) which may be affected; 
 
Provide an objective and transparent assessment of the likely significant 
ecological effects and residual effects of the Project; 
 
Facilitate objective and transparent determination of the effects of the project in 
terms of national, regional and local policies relevant to nature conservation 
and biodiversity; and 
 
Set out what steps would be taken to adhere to legal requirements relating to 
the relevant ecological features concerned.  
8.2 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
8.2.1 
There have been changes to the design as a result of design evolution and 
consultation as detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description. To aid the 
reader, Table 8-1 below outlines the changes to this assessment compared with the 
2014 PIER.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-4 
 
Table 8-1: A summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Ecology Assessment 
Section 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
Section 
Reference 
Baseline 
The following surveys have been completed since the 2014 
PEIR:  
 
Extended Phase 1 Habitat survey completed by 
AECOM in 2017;  
 
Great crested newt (Triturus cristatus) survey 
completed by AECOM in 2017; 
 
Reptile survey completed by AECOM in 2017;  
 
Otter 
(Lutra 
lutra) 
and 
water 
vole 
(Arvicola 
amphibius) survey completed by AECOM in 2017; 
 
Dormouse 
(Muscardinus 
avellanarius) 
survey 
completed by AECOM in 2017; 
 
Badger (Meles meles) survey completed by AECOM 
in 2017; and,  
 
Bat roost assessment and activity survey completed 
by AECOM in 2017.  
Survey works are ongoing for breeding birds and bat activity 
and will be completed by the time of DCO Application.  
Since habitats and management within the Project Site 
boundary have not changed significantly since the 2014 
surveys, the 2017 results will be augmented with the results 
from previous surveys as follows.  
 
Breeding bird surveys part-completed by AECOM in 
2017, ongoing in March/April 2018 and to be 
augmented by breeding bird survey undertaken by 
BSG Ecology in 2014; and,  
 
 
 
Bat activity surveys part-completed by AECOM in 
2017, ongoing in 2018 and to be augmented by bat 
activity survey undertaken by BSG Ecology in 2014. 
Section 8.5 
Methodology 
The methodology for bat surveys and assessment in 2014 
paid due regard to Hundt, L. (2012) Bat Surveys: Good 
Practice Guidelines, 2nd Edition, Bat Conservation Trust.  
The methodology for bat surveys and assessment in 2017 
paid due regard to Collins, J. (ed.) (2016). Bat Surveys for 
Professional Ecologists: Good Practice Guidelines (3rd ed.). 
The Bat Conservation Trust, London.  
Table 8-6 
The methodology for the water vole survey in 2014 paid due 
regard to Strachan, R. & Moorhouse, T. (2006) Water Vole 
Conservation Handbook 2nd Ed. WildCRU, Oxford. 
The methodology for the water vole survey in 2017 paid due 
regard to Dean, M.,Strachan, R., Gow, D. and Andres, R. 
(2016). The Water Vole Mitigation Handbook (The Mammal 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-5 
 
Section 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
Section 
Reference 
Society Mitigation Guidance Series). Eds Fiona Mathews 
and Paul Chanin. The Mammal Society, London.  
All other survey methodology of the 2014 and 2017 surveys 
paid due regard to the same guidance.  
Significance 
of Effect 
Residual effects in the 2014 PEIR were assessed to be not 
significant for all receptors apart from Ancient Woodland 
where the loss of habitat was deemed to be significant at 
the Local level.  
Residual effects in the 2017 PEIR have been assessed to 
be not significant for all receptors.  
Table 
8-17 
and Table 8-
18 
8.3 
Legislation, Policy and Guidance  
8.3.1 
This section identifies and describes legislation, policy and guidance of relevance 
to the assessment of the likely significant ecological effects associated with the 
construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the Project. 
8.3.2 
Legislation and policy has been considered on an international, national, regional 
and local level.  The following is considered to be relevant to the ecological 
assessment as it has influenced the assessment of sensitivity of receptors and 
requirements for mitigation or the scope and/or methodology of the PEIR. 
a) International and National Legislation 
i. 
Designated Sites and Habitats 
8.3.3 
A variety of sites are designated in the UK, under Conventions, Directives and 
Regulations for their nature conservation importance and interest.  The general aim 
of these designations is to conserve and protect ecological resources, as well as 
raising awareness and understanding.  Other non-statutory sites are afforded some 
protection through local plans.  Table 8-2 outlines the most common statutory and 
non-statutory designations.  
Table 8-2: Summary of relevant legislation with regards to designated sites 
Designation  
Brief Description 
Special Areas of 
Conservation 
(SAC) 
SACs are sites selected to conserve the natural habitat types and 
species of wild flora and fauna listed in the Annexes of the Habitats 
Directive (further information regarding the Habitats Directive is set out 
in more detail in Table 8.3 below).  They are the best areas to 
represent the range and variety of habitats and species within the 
European Union (EU).   
Special Protection 
Area (SPA) 
SPAs are strictly protected sites for the most important habitats for rare 
and migratory birds within the EU classified in accordance with Article 
4 of the Birds Directive information regarding the Birds Directive is set 
out in more detail in Table 8.3 below).   
Ramsar Sites 
Ramsar Sites are wetlands of international importance. Ramsar Sites 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-6 
 
Designation  
Brief Description 
are protected, through the planning system, under the Wildlife and 
Countryside Act 1981 (as amended), and the Countryside and Rights 
of Way Act 2000 through their notification as SSSIs and through other 
regulatory systems addressing water, soil and air quality. 
National 
Nature 
Reserve (NNR) 
NNRs are nationally important areas of wildlife habitat and geological 
formations in Britain.  NNRs are designated and protected under the 
National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 and the 
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended). They receive 
additional protection under the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 
2000.  They are managed for the benefit of nature conservation. 
Site 
of 
Special 
Scientific Interest 
(SSSI) 
A SSSI is a site of at least national importance for nature conservation 
designated under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
due to its special interest in terms of flora, fauna or geological or 
physiographical features.  Protection afforded to SSSI’s was 
strengthened by the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000.  It 
should be noted that under the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 
2000 owners of SSSIs must give Natural Resources Wales (NRW) 
written notice before they begin any of the operations listed in the 
notification as likely to damage the special interest features, or if they 
allow others to carry out these activities.  None of the listed operations 
can be carried out without NRW’s consent. 
County 
Wildlife 
Site (Local site) 
A County Wildlife Site is a non-statutory site designated by a local 
authority as being of local nature conservation value.  
Ancient Woodland 
Inventory 
Ancient Woodland is a term applied to woodlands which have existed 
from at least Medieval times to the present without ever having been 
cleared for uses other than wood or timber production.  A convenient 
date used to separate ancient and secondary woodland is about the 
year 1600. In special circumstances semi-natural woods of post-1600 
but pre-1900 origin are also included.  
Wildlife 
Trust 
Reserve 
These non-statutory sites are managed by the Wildlife Trusts with the 
purpose of conserving wildlife. 
ii. Species 
8.3.4 
In addition to habitats, a number of species have been afforded protection through 
international/European and national law.  Other species are considered to 
contribute to our ‘quality of life’.  Although these species do not benefit from legal 
protection, they can be material considerations in the planning process.  The 
Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000, the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as 
amended), the Protection of Badgers Act 1992 and the Conservation of Habitats 
and Species Regulations 2017 are the main legislative framework for protection of 
wild animals in the UK.  Schedule 1 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as 
amended) covers birds which are protected by special penalties, Schedule 5 covers 
other animals which are protected and Schedule 8 covers plants which are 
protected. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-7 
 
8.3.5 
Species including bats, otters and great crested newts are listed under Schedule 2 
of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017.  Badgers are 
protected under their own Act: The Protection of Badgers Act 1992.  Activities 
affecting protected species must usually be conducted under licence obtained from 
the appropriate body (in Wales, this is Natural Resources Wales).  
8.3.6 
Developers must be able to show that all reasonable measures have been taken to 
ensure that protected species are not subject to disturbance.  The habitats which 
regularly support the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 
2017Schedule 2 species, the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
Schedule 1 species and some Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
Schedule 5 species are also protected from disturbance and destruction. Again, all 
reasonable precautions should be taken to ensure that this does not happen. The 
Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 has strengthened enforcement powers 
and introduced a new offence of “reckless disturbance” that applies to both 
protected sites and species. Table 8-3 below provides a summary of the relevant 
legislation with regards to protected and priority species.  
Table 8-3: Summary of relevant legislation with regards to protected and priority species 
Legislation 
Brief Description 
The Habitats Directive 
The Habitats Directive 1992 (Directive 92/43/EEC sets out the 
legal framework requiring EU member states to protect habitat 
sites supporting vulnerable and protected species, as listed 
within the Directive. The need for an assessment of impacts on 
Natura 2000 sites (the collective name for European designated 
sites, including SPAs and SACs) is set out within Article 6 of the 
Directive. The Directive is transposed into UK law through the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017) (the 
"Habitats Regulations") and the Wildlife & Countryside Act 1981 
(as amended).  
The Birds Directive 
The Directive on the Conservation of Wild Birds (Directive 
2009/147/EC (the codified version of Council Directive 
79/409/EEC as amended)) provides a framework for the 
protection, management and control of all species of naturally 
occurring wild birds in the European territory of Member States, 
including the UK. The provisions of the Birds Directive are 
transposed into UK law by the Conservation of Habitats and 
Species Regulations, 2017 and the Wildlife & Countryside Act 
1981 (as amended). 
Wildlife and Countryside 
Act 
(1981) 
(as 
amended) 
The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) is the 
principal mechanism for the legislative protection of wildlife in 
Great Britain. This legislation is the means by which the 
Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and 
Natural Habitats (Bern Convention) and (partially) the Birds 
Directive and the Habitats Directive are implemented in the UK.  
The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 has strengthened 
this legal protection (see below).  
A small number of plant species are listed under Schedule 9 of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-8 
 
Legislation 
Brief Description 
the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, as amended, which 
includes species such as Japanese knotweed (Fallopia 
japonica), 
Himalayan 
balsam 
(Impatiens 
glandulifera), 
montbretia (Crocosmia x crocosmiiflora), giant hogweed 
(Heracleum mantegazzianum) and some cotoneaster species 
(Cotoneaster sp.).  It is illegal to plant or to cause these plants to 
grow in the wild, and legal disposal methods for vegetation and 
soil subject to disturbance or clearance from a site must be 
used.  
Convention 
on 
Biological Diversity and 
the 
Countryside 
and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 
The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 provides a 
statutory framework for biodiversity conservation.  The Act 
places a duty on Government Departments and the National 
Assembly for Wales to have regard for the conservation of 
biodiversity and maintain lists of species and habitats for which 
conservation steps should be taken or promoted, in accordance 
with the Convention on Biological Diversity. 
Schedule 9 of the Act amends SSSI provisions of the Wildlife 
and Countryside Act 1981, including provisions to change SSSIs 
and providing increased powers for their protection and 
management. The provisions extend powers for entering into 
management agreements; place a duty on public bodies to 
further the conservation and enhancement of SSSIs; increases 
penalties on conviction where the provisions are breached; and 
introduce a new offence whereby third parties can be convicted 
for damaging SSSIs.   
Schedule 12 of the Act amends the species provisions of the 
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, strengthening the legal 
protection for threatened species. The provisions make certain 
offences 'arrestable' and create a new offence of reckless 
disturbance.  
The UK Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) was published in 1994, 
and was the UK Government’s response to the Convention on 
Biological Diversity (CBD), which the UK signed up to in 1992. It 
provides the framework for fulfilling the UK’s responsibilities 
towards the Convention on Biological Diversity.  Conservation of 
biodiversity (the variety of life on earth) is an essential element 
of sustainable development.  
Environment 
(Wales) 
Act 2016 
The Environment (Wales) Act puts in place the legislation 
needed to plan and manage Wales’ natural resources in a more 
proactive, sustainable and joined-up way.  Part 1 relates to the 
sustainable management of natural resources.  This ensures 
that the way in which the use of and the impacts on natural 
resources do not result in long term decline.  The aim is to 
sustainably manage natural resources in a way and rate that 
meets the needs of present and current generations without 
compromising the needs of future generations.  
The Act also contains at section 7, a duty for the Welsh Ministers 
to prepare and publish a list of the living organisms and types of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-9 
 
Legislation 
Brief Description 
habitat which in their opinion are of principal importance for the 
purpose of maintaining and enhancing biodiversity in relation to 
Wales. This section replaces the duty in section 42 of the NERC 
Act 2006.  
 
Protection of Badgers 
Act 1992 
The Protection of Badgers Act 1992 makes it an offence to 
wilfully take, kill, injure or ill-treat a badger, possess a dead 
badger or any part of a badger.  Sett interference includes 
damaging or destroying a sett, obstructing access to a sett, and 
disturbing a badger whilst it is occupying a sett. The Act defines 
a badger sett as ‘any structure or place, which displays signs 
indicating the current use by a badger’ and Natural England 
takes this definition to include seasonally used setts. 
Work that may disturb badgers or their setts is illegal without a 
development licence from the relevant statutory body (in this 
case Natural Resources Wales). 
 
The 
Hedgerow 
Regulations 1997 
The Hedgerow Regulations (1997) make provision for the 
protection of important hedgerows in England and Wales. The 
regulations affect hedgerows which are 20m or more in length, 
or connected at both ends to another hedgerow of any length. 
They relate to hedgerows which are on, or adjoining land used 
for the following purposes: agriculture or forestry; the breeding or 
keeping of horses, ponies or donkeys; common land; village 
greens; and SSSIs (They do not include hedges that are 
attached to, or marking the boundaries of a private house. 
It is an offence to intentionally or recklessly remove or cause or 
permit another person to remove a hedgerow or intentionally or 
recklessly remove, or cause or permit another person to remove, 
a hedgerow which is the subject of a hedgerow retention notice. 
 
b) National Planning Policy 
i. 
National Policy Statements 
National Planning Policy Statement for Energy EN-1 
8.3.7 
Section 5.3 of the Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1) (July 
2011) (Ref. 8.1) contains policies relating to biodiversity and geological 
conservation, in this chapter only biodiversity will be considered  
8.3.8 
Section 4.3 of EN-1 refers to the requirement to consider whether a project is likely 
to have a significant effect on a European site either alone or in combination with 
other plans or projects.  EN-1 requires the EIA for an NSIP to clearly set out "any 
effects on internationally, nationally and locally designated sites of ecological 
importance, on protected species and on habitats and other species identified as 
being of principal importance for the conservation of biodiversity".  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-10 
 
8.3.9 
The NPS sets out policies in relation to each of the following types of designated 
sites of relevance to the Project: 
 
International sites (Ramsar, SAC, SPA (including proposed sites);  
 
SSSIs;  
 
Marine Conservation Zones;  
 
Regional and local sites (e.g. Local Nature Reserves (LNR));  
 
Ancient Woodland and veteran trees;  
 
Biodiversity within developments; and,  
 
Protection of habitats and other species (i.e. species and habitats of principle 
importance nationally, or species and habitats of regional importance.   
International sites 
8.3.10 Section 5.3.9 of EN-1 identifies Ramsar sites as the most important sites for 
biodiversity. Section 5.5.9 states that the applicant should be particularly careful to 
identify any effects of physical changes on the integrity and special features of 
Marine Conservation Zones, candidate SACs, coastal SACs and candidate coastal 
SACs, coastal SPAs and potential coastal SPAs, Ramsar sites, Sites of Community 
Importance (SCIs) and potential SCIs and Sites of Special Scientific Interest. 
Regional and local sites 
8.3.11 Regional and local sites are covered under section 5.3.13 of EN-1 which 
acknowledges the importance of such sites and that the Secretary of State should 
give due consideration to such regional or local designations. However, it goes on 
to state that given the need for new infrastructure, these designations should not be 
used in themselves to refuse development consent. 
Ancient Woodland and veteran trees  
8.3.12 Section 5.3.14 of EN-1 sets out that Ancient Woodland is a valuable biodiversity 
resource both for its diversity of species and for its longevity as woodland. It states 
that the Secretary of State should not grant development consent for any 
development that would result in its loss or deterioration unless the benefits 
(including need) of the development, in that location outweigh the loss of the 
woodland habitat. 
Biodiversity within developments 
8.3.13 Section 5.3.15 of EN-1 states that Development proposals provide many 
opportunities for building-in beneficial biodiversity or geological features as part of 
good design. When considering proposals, the Secretary of State should maximise 
such opportunities in and around developments, using requirements or planning 
obligations where appropriate. 
Protection of habitats and other species 
8.3.14 Section 5.3.17 of EN-1 sets out that other species and habitats have been identified 
as being of principal importance for the conservation of biodiversity in England and 
Wales and thereby requiring conservation action. The Secretary of State should 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-11 
 
ensure that these species and habitats are protected from the adverse effects of 
development by using requirements or planning obligations. The Secretary of State 
should refuse consent where harm to the habitats or species and their habitats 
would result, unless the benefits (including need) of the development outweigh that 
harm. In this context the Secretary of State should give substantial weight to any 
such harm to the detriment of biodiversity features of national or regional 
importance which it considers may result from a proposed development. 
Mitigation 
8.3.15 The NPS also requires the applicant to demonstrate that its proposals include 
appropriate mitigation measures such as: habitats will, where practicable, be 
restored after construction works have finished; and opportunities will be taken to 
enhance existing habitats and, where practicable, to create new habitats of value 
within the site landscaping.  
8.3.16 Where the applicant cannot demonstrate that appropriate mitigation measures will 
be put in place the Secretary of State should consider what appropriate 
requirements should be attached to any consent and/or planning obligations 
entered into. The Secretary of State will need to take account of what mitigation 
measures may have been agreed.  
ii. Planning Policy Wales (9th Ed. November 2016) 
8.3.17 Planning Policy Wales (PPW) sets out the land use planning policies of Welsh 
Government.  
8.3.18 Chapter 5: Alternatives Considered, Conserving and Improving the Natural 
Heritage and the Coast, outlines Welsh Government’s objectives for the 
conservation and improvement of natural heritage.  The relevant measures in place 
to conserve landscape and biodiversity include:  
 
Statutory designations; 
 
Non-statutory designations; 
 
LANDMAP Information System (LANDMAP describes and evaluates 
 
aspects of the landscape and provides the basis of a consistent Wales-wide 
approach to landscape assessment); 
 
Development plans and the conservation and improvement of the natural 
heritage; 
 
Development management and the conservation and improvement of the 
natural heritage; 
 
Development management and statutory designations; 
 
Trees and woods; and, 
 
Protected species.  
8.3.19 Paragraph 5.3.10 states that "potential SPAs and candidate SACs (included in the 
list sent to the European Commission) should be treated in the same way as 
classified SPAs and designated SACs. Sites which the UK and the European 
Commission have agreed as Sites of Community Importance and which are to be 
designated as SACs attract the same legal protection as if they had already been 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-12 
 
designated. The same considerations should, as a matter of policy, be applied to 
listed Ramsar sites". 
8.3.20 Paragraph 5.2.9 states that "Local planning authorities should seek to protect trees, 
groups of trees and areas of woodland where they have natural heritage value or 
contribute to the character or amenity of a particular locality. Ancient and semi-
natural woodlands are irreplaceable habitats of high biodiversity value which should 
be protected from development that would result in significant damage." 
8.3.21 Paragraph 5.5.4 states that "For all planning applications likely to result in 
disturbance or harm to a protected species or likely to have a significant adverse 
effect on sites of more than local importance, or on a designated area, local 
planning authorities should seek the advice of Natural Resources Wales and 
should always consult them before granting permission".  
iii. Technical Advice Note 5 (TAN5) Nature Conservation and Planning 
(September 2009)  
8.3.22 The Planning Policy Wales (PPW) is supplemented by a series of Technical Advice 
Notes. TAN 5 provides guidance on how the land use planning system should 
contribute to protecting and enhancing biodiversity and geological conservation.  It 
provides advice on areas including the key principles of positive planning for nature 
conservation, nature conservation in Local Development Plans and development 
management procedures.  It also provides advice on development affecting 
designated sites and habitats, in addition to protected or priority habitats and 
species.  
8.3.23 Key Principles include that the town and country planning system in Wales should 
integrate nature conservation into all planning decisions; that the town and country 
planning system should look for development to provide a net benefit for 
biodiversity conservation with no significant loss of habitats or populations of 
species, locally or nationally and that they should ensure that the UK’s international 
and national obligations for site, species and habitat protection are fully met in all 
planning decisions.  
c) Local Development Plans 
8.3.24 Local Development Plans (LDPs) must be produced by every Local Planning 
Authority in Wales.  Any development proposal will be tested against the policies 
within the LDP.  The LDPs follow the planning guidance provide in PPW, including 
biodiversity and natural heritage policies.  These include protecting designated 
sites and other areas of importance for biodiversity conservation; safeguarding 
protected species and priority species, including those listed in local biodiversity 
action plans and retaining, creating and enhancing features of importance for 
biodiversity conservation where appropriate.  
8.3.25 Relevant local planning policies for CCS are detailed in the adopted City and 
County of Swansea Unitary Development Plan:  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-13 
 
8.3.26 Table 8-5 provides a summary of relevant local planning policies.  For the precise 
wording of each specific policy please refer back to the source document.  
Table 8-4: Summary of relevant Unitary Development Plan policies 
Planning Policy 
Purpose / Relevant Sections 
SP1 
Creating 
a 
Quality Environment 
Sustainable development will be pursued as an integral principle of 
the planning and development process.  
Development proposals designed to a high quality and standard, 
which enhance townscape, landscape, sense of place, and 
strengthen Swansea Waterfront identity, will be favoured.  
SP2 - Creating a 
Quality Environment 
The countryside will be protected and conserved, with green 
wedges shaping the urban form and safeguarding the distinctive 
interplay of town and country. Village character will be protected. 
SP3 - Creating a 
Quality Environment 
The natural, built, and cultural heritage of the County will be 
protected and enhanced to safeguard from materially harmful 
development. 
Siting and Location - 
EV2 
The siting of new development should give preference to the use of 
previously developed land over greenfield sites, and must have 
regard to the physical character and topography of the site and its 
surroundings by:  
i. Avoiding locations that would have a significant adverse impact on 
prominent buildings, landscapes, open spaces and the general 
locality, including loss of visual amenity, 
ii. Effectively integrating with the landscape, seascape or coastline 
by utilising topography to integrate into the contours of the site and 
avoiding conspicuous locations on prominent skylines and ridges, 
iii. Retaining important views into and out of the site, 
iv. Taking into account and where possible retaining site features 
including existing buildings, topography, landscape, archaeological 
and water features, trees and hedgerows, and, where appropriate: 
v. Undertaking, at the earliest opportunity, an assessment of 
species and habitats on site and, where planning permission is 
granted, implementing any necessary mitigation measures, 
ix. Determining whether the proposal would be at risk from flooding, 
increase flood risk off-site, or create additional water run-off, 
xiii. Having full regard to existing adjacent developments and the 
possible 
impact 
of 
environmental 
pollution 
from 
those 
developments, as well as the creation of any environmental 
pollution to the detriment of neighbouring occupiers (including light, 
air and noise). 
Rural Development - 
EV21 
In the countryside non-residential development will only be 
permitted where it can be demonstrated that:  
iii. It is an appropriate development associated with farm 
diversification, sustainable tourism and recreation, or nature 
conservation and does not adversely affect the viability of an 
established farm unit.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-14 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose / Relevant Sections 
Rural Development - 
EV22 
The countryside throughout the County will be conserved and 
enhanced for the sake of its natural heritage, natural resources, 
historic and cultural environment and agricultural and recreational 
value through:  
i. The control of development, and 
ii. Practical management and improvement measures. 
Sites of International 
Importance - EV25 
Development, alone or in combination with other plans or projects, 
which is likely to adversely affect the integrity of a European 
protected site (SAC, Marine SAC, SPA and Ramsar Sites) and is 
not directly connected with or necessary to the management of the 
site, will not be permitted unless:  
i. There are imperative reasons of over-riding public interest, 
including those of a social or economic nature, which are sufficient 
to override the reasons for designation, and 
ii. There is no alternative solution. 
Where such development is permitted, planning conditions and/or 
obligations will be used to secure all compensatory measures 
necessary to ensure that the overall coherence of the European 
Site is protected. 
SSSIs and National 
Nature Reserves - 
EV27 
Development that significantly adversely affects the special 
interests of sites designated as SSSIs and NNRs will not be 
permitted unless the need for the development is of such 
significance that it outweighs the national importance of the 
designation.  
Where development is permitted, planning conditions and/or 
obligations will be used to protect and enhance those interests and 
where necessary provide effective mitigation and compensatory 
measures. 
Sites 
of 
Local 
Importance - EV28 
Within locally designated areas the natural heritage will be 
preserved and enhanced wherever possible.  
Development that would significantly adversely affect the special 
interest of Local Nature Reserves will not be permitted unless the 
need for the development is of such significance that it outweighs 
the importance of the designation.  
Development that would significantly adversely affect SINCs or 
RIGs, or which would not provide for appropriate compensatory or 
mitigation measures will not be permitted, unless it can be 
demonstrated to meet appropriate social or economic needs where 
the benefits in such terms would outweigh the harm to the feature 
concerned.  
Where development is permitted which would damage the nature 
conservation value of the site, such damage will be kept to a 
minimum, and appropriate mitigation or compensatory measures 
sought. 
Trees, 
Woodland 
and 
Hedgerow 
Protection and improved management of woodlands, trees and 
hedgerows which are important for their visual amenity, historic 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-15 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose / Relevant Sections 
Protection - EV30 
environment, natural heritage, and/or recreation value will be 
encouraged, with priority being given to:  
i. Protecting the remaining areas of ancient semi natural woodland 
and planted ancient woodland sites, 
ii. Promoting new planting with species appropriate to the location, 
where there is no conflict with other land uses or nature 
conservation interests, and 
iii. Ensuring that where management involves commercial felling 
and replanting, protection of amenity interests is achieved. 
Environmental 
Enhancement 
- 
EV32 
Environmental improvement schemes will be implemented at a 
number of locations shown on the Proposals Map. These are 
intended to:  
i. Improve visual appearance, natural heritage value and recreation 
potential, 
ii. Improve the setting of industrial, commercial and residential 
developments and transport corridors, and 
iii. Maintain, extend and improve the quality of the urban 
greenspace network in line with the aims of the ‘Greening the City’ 
strategy 
Protection 
of 
Controlled Waters - 
EV34 
Development proposals that may impact upon the water 
environment will only be permitted where it can be demonstrated 
that they would not pose a significant risk to the quality and or 
quantity of controlled waters.  
Initiatives that lead to improvements in the quality of surface water 
will be approved subject to satisfactory ecological and visual 
safeguards. 
Protection 
of 
Controlled Waters - 
EV35 
Development that would have an adverse impact on the water 
environment due to:  
i. Additional surface water run off leading to a significant risk of 
flooding on site or an increase in flood risk elsewhere, and/or 
ii. A reduction in the quality of surface water run-off, 
will only be permitted where it can be demonstrated that appropriate 
alleviating measures can be implemented.  
Sustainable drainage systems (SUDS) will be encouraged wherever 
they would be effective and practicable, so as to ensure that 
development does not increase run off, and potentially damage 
important landscape features and protected species and habitats. 
Where SUDS are not provided then any conventional drainage 
system utilised must improve the status quo. 
Air, Noise and Light 
Pollution EV40 
Development proposals will not be permitted that would cause or 
result in significant harm to health, local amenity, natural heritage, 
the historic environment or landscape character because of 
significant levels of air, noise or light pollution. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-16 
 
8.3.27 CCS has also submitted the Swansea Local Development Plan 2010 – 2025 to the 
Secretary of State for Examination in public. This is an emerging development plan, 
and is not part of the statutory development plan. However, its policies are a 
material consideration and relevant policies are set out below.  
8.3.28 Table 8-5 provides a summary of relevant local planning policies.  For the precise 
wording of each specific policy please refer back to the source document.  
Table 8-5: Summary of relevant local planning policies 
Planning Policy 
Purpose / Relevant Sections 
ER 1 Climate Change 
To mitigate against the effects of climate change, adapt to its 
impacts, and to ensure resilience, development proposals should 
take into account: 
i. Reducing carbon emissions; 
ii. Protecting and increasing carbon sinks; 
iii. Adapting to the implications of climate change at both a 
strategic and detailed design level; 
iv. Promoting energy and resource efficiency and increasing the 
supply of renewable and low carbon energy; 
v. Avoiding unnecessary flood risk by assessing the implications 
of development proposals within areas susceptible to flooding 
and preventing development that unacceptably increases risk; 
and, 
vi. Maintaining ecological resilience. 
ER 2 Strategic Green 
Infrastructure Network 
Development will be required to maintain or enhance the extent, 
quality and connectivity of the County’s multi-functional green 
infrastructure network, and where appropriate: 
i. Create new interconnected areas of green infrastructure 
between the proposed site and the existing strategic network; 
ii. Fill gaps in the existing network to improve connectivity; and/or, 
iii. In instances where loss of green infrastructure is unavoidable, 
provide mitigation and compensation for the lost assets. 
ER 6 Designated Sites 
of 
Importance 
for 
Nature Conservation 
Development will not be permitted that would result in a likely 
significant adverse effect to sites of international or national 
nature conservation importance.  
Development that would affect locally designated sites of nature 
conservation importance should maintain or enhance the nature 
conservation interest of the site.  Where this cannot be achieved 
development will only be permitted where it can be demonstrated 
that:  
i. The need for the development outweighs the need to protect 
the site for nature conservation purposes; 
ii. There is no satisfactory alternative location for the development 
that avoids nature conservation impacts; and, 
iii. Any unacceptable harm is kept to a minimum by effective 
avoidance measures and mitigation, or where this is not feasible 
compensatory measures must be put in place to ensure that there 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-17 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose / Relevant Sections 
is no overall reduction in the nature conservation value of the 
area. 
ER 8 Habitats and 
Species 
Development proposals that would have a significant adverse 
effect on the continued viability of habitats and species, including 
those identified as priorities in the UK or Swansea Local 
Biodiversity Action Plan, will only be permitted where:  
i. The need for development outweighs the nature conservation 
importance of the site; 
ii. The developer demonstrates that there is no satisfactory 
alternative location for the development which avoids nature 
conservation impacts; 
iii. Effective mitigation measures are provided by the developer; 
And, 
iv. Any unavoidable harm is minimised by effective mitigation to 
ensure that there is no reduction in the overall nature 
conservation value of the area.  Where this is not feasible, 
compensation measures designed to conserve, enhance, 
manage and, where appropriate, restore natural habitats and 
species must be provided. 
ER 
9 
Ecological 
Networks and Features 
of 
Importance 
for 
Biodiversity 
Development proposals will be expected to maintain, protect and 
enhance ecological networks and features of importance for 
biodiversity.  Particular importance will be given to maintaining 
and enhancing the connectivity of ecological networks which 
enable the dispersal and functioning of protected and priority 
species.  
Development proposals that could result in a significant adverse 
effect on the connectivity of ecological networks and features of 
importance for biodiversity will only be permitted where:  
i. The need for the development outweighs the nature 
conservation value of the site; 
ii. It can be demonstrated that there is no satisfactory alternative 
location for the 
102 PPW sections 5.5.11 – 5.5.12 and TAN 6 Nature 
Conservation and Planning (2009) Chapter 6 
development; 
iii. A connected element of the natural resource is retained as part 
of the design of the development; and, 
iv. Compensatory provision will be made of comparable 
ecological value to that lost as a result of the development. 
ER 
11 
Trees 
and 
Development 
Development that would adversely affect trees, woodlands and 
hedgerows of public amenity, natural/cultural heritage value, or 
that provide important ecosystem services will not normally be 
permitted.  
Ancient Woodland, Ancient Woodland Sites, Ancient and Veteran 
trees merit specific protection and development will not normally 
be permitted that would result in:  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-18 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose / Relevant Sections 
i. Fragmentation or loss of Ancient Woodland; 
ii. The loss of an Ancient or Veteran tree; 
iii. Ground damage, loss of understorey or ground disturbance to 
an area of Ancient Woodland or Ancient or Veteran Tree’s root 
protection area; 
iv. A reduction in the area of other semi natural habitats adjoining 
Ancient Woodland; 
v. Significant alteration to the land use adjoining the Ancient 
Woodland; 
vi. An increase in the likely exposure of Ancient Woodland, 
Ancient or Veteran Tree to air, water or light pollution from the 
surrounding area; 
vii. Alteration of the hydrology in a way that might impact on 
Ancient Woodland, Ancient or Veteran Trees; 
viii. Destruction of important connecting habitats relating to 
Ancient Woodland; 
ix. Degradation of important archaeological or historical features 
within Ancient Woodland or associated with Ancient or Veteran 
trees; 
x. Destruction of Plantations on Ancient Woodland Sites (PAWS); 
and/or, 
xi. Development within 15m of Ancient Woodland. 
8.4 
Methodology 
a) Scope of the Assessment 
8.4.1 
The scope of this assessment has been determined through a formal 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) scoping process.  The Secretary of State 
issued a scoping opinion in August 2014.  Comments raised in the EIA Scoping 
Opinion and other consultation have been taken into account in the development of 
the assessment methodology and these are detailed where relevant in this chapter.   
i. 
Desk-Based Study 
8.4.2 
The objectives of the desk study are to review the existing information available in 
the public domain concerning species and habitats to identify the following: 
 
Internationally, nationally and locally designated sites, up to 2 km from the 
Project Site boundary using the Multi Agency Geographic Information for the 
Countryside (MAGIC) website (www.magic.gov.uk) in accordance with 
published guidelines (Ref. 8.2);  
 
Natura 2000 sites, up to 10 km from the Project Site boundary (see Table 8-7 
for justification on search distances);  
 
Protected and Priority species records and records of locally designated sites 
up to 2 km from the Project Site boundary, using the South East Wales 
Biodiversity Records Centre (SEWBReC) in accordance with published 
guidelines (Ref. 8.2);  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-19 
 
 
SACs and SSSIs designated for bats within a 10 km radius of the  Project Site 
boundary 
in 
accordance 
with 
Bat 
Conservation 
Trust 
(Ref. 
8.3) 
recommendations;  
 
Section 7 list of Species and Habitats of Principal Importance for Conservation 
of Biological Diversity in Wales;  
 
Ancient Semi-Natural Woodland (ASNW), Plantation on Ancient Woodland Site 
(PAWS), Restored Ancient Woodland Site (RAWS) or Ancient Woodland Site 
of Unknown category (AWSU) within or adjacent to the Project Site boundary 
using Ancient Woodland Inventory 2011 dataset downloaded from the Lle 
website;  
 
Tree Protection Orders (TPO’s) from CCS;  
 
Local/county recorders for bryophytes, flora, moths, butterflies, amphibians, 
reptiles, birds, bats, mammals, and the County Ecologist were contacted for 
local records or knowledge about the Project Site; and, 
 
Aerial photographs and Ordnance Survey (OS) maps were reviewed to identify 
features of ecological interest surrounding the Project Site boundary including 
ponds within 500 m, nearby areas of ecological interest and features 
connecting these habitats (hedgerows, watercourses, railway lines).  
ii. Field Survey Methods 
8.4.3 
A Preliminary Ecological Appraisal (PEA) (Ref. 8.4) was undertaken in May 2017.  
Included within the PEA were a Phase 1 Habitat survey and an appraisal of the 
potential of the Project Site to support protected or notable species.  The results of 
this survey combined with the desk top assessment informed the need for further 
ecological surveys.  
8.4.4 
Table 8-6 provides a summary of the surveys undertaken, coupled with their extent 
and limitations.  The species scoped in were determined through an assessment of 
known range, habitat preferences and desk-based data.  The detailed 
methodologies are outlined in each of the respective baseline technical appendices 
(Appendix 8.1 – 8.11).  The table explains where data from the ecology surveys 
undertaken by BSG Ecology in 2014 will be used to inform the assessment and 
why this is considered to be appropriate and identifies limitations on the survey 
data obtained by AECOM in 2017.  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-20 
 
Table 8-6: A Summary of Field Surveys and their Limitations 
Survey Type  
Description 
Date(s) 
Appendix and Limitations 
Comments 
Phase 1 Habitat 
survey 
The survey involved a site walkover of all 
accessible land within the Project Site boundary 
and preliminary assessment of key habitats, land 
use and ecological features. The main habitats 
present were recorded using standard Phase 1 
Habitat Survey methodology as described in the 
Handbook for Phase 1 Habitat Survey: A 
technique for Environmental Audit (Ref. 8.6). The 
plant species defining the habitat types within the 
Project Site boundary were recorded. Evidence of 
any invasive plant species subject to legal controls 
was recorded. The Project Site was assessed for 
its potential to support protected or notable 
species in order to identify potential ecological 
constraints and to guide recommendations for 
further surveys. 
May 2017 
Appendix 8.1  
There were no significant limitations associated with the Phase 1 
Habitat Survey.  
During the Phase 1 Habitat survey some areas adjacent to but 
outside of the Project Site boundary were not accessible at the 
time of survey and as such these habitats were surveyed from the 
road at a distance and some areas within the Project Site 
boundary were not accessible due to the presence of horses; 
these habitats were surveyed at a distance.  It is possible that 
evidence of some species, including invasive non-native plant 
species may not have been recorded due to access limitations.  
Site conditions not significantly different to 
those in 2014. 
 
 
National 
Vegetation 
Classification 
(NVC) survey 
BSG Ecology used the Phase 1 Habitat survey to 
identify Section 42 habitats of the NERC Act 2006 
(now Section 7 habitats of the Environment 
(Wales) Act 2016); these habitats plus any 
designated site habitats within the Project Site 
boundary were selected for inclusion in the NVC 
survey.  
June, 
July, 
September 
and 
November 
2014 
Appendix 8.2 
There were no significant limitations associated with the NVC 
survey. 
Site conditions as documented in the Phase 
1 Habitat Survey undertaken by AECOM 
were not significantly different to those 
recorded in 2014 and as such the 2014 
NVC survey results provide an accurate 
representation of the habitats currently 
present within the Project Site boundary; 
there is no requirement for an updated 
NVC.  
Invasive species 
A dedicated survey for invasive species was 
undertaken by BSG Ecology in 2014.  Invasive 
species were recorded during the 2017 Phase 1 
survey.   
July 2014 & 
May 2017 
Appendix 8.1 
The scale of the Project Site and the presence of dense areas of 
scrub or woodland understorey in some areas mean that it is 
possible that small stands or individual plants of invasive species 
could have been missed during the walkover survey.  In addition, 
the presence of horses in some fields restricted access to some 
areas of the Project Site although these areas were assessed 
using binoculars and it is likely, given the heavily grazed nature of 
these fields, that most invasive plant species would have been 
visible using binoculars.  It is considered that the majority of the 
Project Site was surveyed adequately and that overall the 
distribution of invasive species across the Survey Site has been 
mapped accurately.  
Site conditions when visited in 2017 were 
not significantly different to those recorded 
in 2014. 
 
An update to survey will be required prior to 
the production of the final management plan 
and/or implementation of control measures.  
Invertebrates 
BSG Ecology conducted invertebrate surveys for 
moths, marsh fritillary (adult and larval stages), 
terrestrial beetles, and aquatic macroinvertebrates 
in ponds and watercourses. 
June 
– 
September 
2014 
Appendix 8.3  
There were no significant limitations associated with the 
invertebrate survey. 
Site conditions as documented in the Phase 
1 Habitat Survey undertaken by AECOM 
were not significantly different to those 
recorded in 2014 and as such the 2014 
invertebrate survey results provide an 
accurate representation of the species likely 
to be present within the Project Site 
boundary; this is no requirement for an 
updated invertebrate survey.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-21 
 
Survey Type  
Description 
Date(s) 
Appendix and Limitations 
Comments 
Great 
crested 
newt 
A total of 26 ponds were identified within proximity 
of 
the 
Project 
Site.   
 
An HSI Assessment was undertaken on all ponds 
within 500m of the Site and ponds outside of the 
500m but clustered with ponds within the 500m of 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary.  
 
Following the HSI Assessment, of the 26 ponds 
identified, two were classed as poor (a further 
survey was undertaken on one of these) nine were 
dry and seven were not accessible and therefore 
could not be surveyed either due to no land 
access agreement or dense vegetation restricting 
access.  
 
Manual surveys were based on English Nature 
‘Great Crested Newt Mitigation Guidelines’ (2001) 
(Ref. 8.7), using three methods where possible. 
May – June 
2017 
Appendix 8.4 
Of the 26 ponds identified, seven were surveyed due to land 
access restrictions and dense vegetation.  It is considered unlikely 
for these ponds to support great crested newt (GCN) given the 
lack of GCN records from the local records centre and the 
absence of GCN identified in other ponds during the surveys.  
A summary of the manual survey and environmental DNA (eDNA) 
analysis limitations is given in the embedded table below.  
Pond 
Number 
Manual Survey Limitation 
eDNA Survey 
Limitation 
1b 
Not possible to bottle trap or net 
due to deep and soft mud 
surrounding the waterbody.  
Torched 
only 
from 
limited 
accessible areas. 
Only 5% of 
pond perimeter 
accessible to 
sample. 
4 
Not possible to bottle trap or net 
due to deep and soft mud 
surrounding the waterbody. 
Torched 
only 
from 
limited 
accessible areas. 
Only 5% of 
pond perimeter 
accessible to 
sample. 
7 
A dead water shrew (Neomys 
fodiens) was found in one of the 
bottle traps during the first survey 
visit in Pond 7, therefore bottle 
trapping ceased for Pond 7 and 
the netting technique was used 
for future surveys. 
None 
8 
A dead water shrew was found in 
one of the bottle traps during the 
first survey visit in Pond 7. Due to 
the proximity of Pond 8 to Pond 7 
and the risk of trapping water 
shrews, bottle trapping ceased for 
Pond 8 and the netting technique 
was used for future surveys. 
None 
11 
Only approximately 5% of edge is 
accessible. Low water level and 
steep sides, not suitable for bottle 
trapping and dense vegetation 
will restrict torching.  
Small area was torched on 1st 
survey visit but ineffective. No 
further manual 
surveys 
were 
undertaken. 
Only 5% of 
pond perimeter 
accessible to 
sample. 
Ponds 1b and 4 are within a cluster of 
ponds to the north west of the Project Site. 
No evidence of GCN was identified for other 
ponds within this cluster of ponds and 
therefore the manual survey limitation is not 
significant.  
Pond 11 has previously been surveyed and 
no evidence of GCN was found Appendix 
8.17). 
Therefore 
the 
manual 
survey 
limitation is not significant.  
Pond 19b is connected to Pond 19a. Pond 
19a was assessed to be poor as part of the 
HSI assessment. However, due to the 
limitation to the surveys on Pond 19b, 
manual surveys and an eDNA survey was 
undertaken on Pond 19a.  No evidence of 
GCN was returned for Pond 19a and 
therefore the manual survey limitation on 
Pond 19b is not significant.  
Usually a GCN eDNA water sample which 
has been taken from such a restricted area 
reduces the confidence in any negative 
result returned as GCN eDNA can be 
patchy depending upon where the animals 
have been in the pond.  However on this 
occasion, given the lack of evidence of GCN 
within other ponds in close proximity of 
Ponds 1b, 4 and 11 and the previous survey 
undertaken on Pond 11 which returned no 
results for GCN (Appendix 8.17).  The 
eDNA limitation on Ponds 1b, 4 and 11 is 
not  significant. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-22 
 
Survey Type  
Description 
Date(s) 
Appendix and Limitations 
Comments 
17 
No manual surveys undertaken 
as access not granted within the 
required survey season time. 
None 
19b 
Low 
water 
level, 
dense 
vegetation and soft mud. Not be 
suitable 
for 
bottle 
trapping, 
torching or egg searching. Access 
restricted by soft mud. 
Small area was torched on 1st 
survey visit but ineffective. No 
further manual 
surveys 
were 
undertaken on 19b.  
Manual surveys undertaken on 
Pond 
19a 
undertaken 
as 
connected to Pond 19b. 
No eDNA 
sample 
undertaken on 
Pond 19b. 
Pond 19a was 
sampled 
instead. 
 
Reptiles 
A survey has been undertaken in accordance with 
the guidelines provided in Froglife (Ref. 8.8) and 
also the Herpetofauna Workers’ Manual (Gent, T 
and Gibson, S 2003. Herpetofauna Workers’ 
Manual. JNCC, Peterborough) (Ref. 8.9).  
August 
– 
September 
2014 
September 
2017 
Appendix 8.5 
Several areas of habitat suitable for supporting reptiles within the 
Project Site boundary could not be surveyed using artificial refugia 
due to the presence of grazing livestock.  Artificial refugia would 
pose a health and safety risk to the livestock as well as posing a 
risk of trampling to sheltering reptile utilising the artificial refugia.  
These areas lacked features where reptiles might be easily 
observed and as such a walkover survey of these areas was not 
considered appropriate.  There is the potential for reptiles to have 
gone unrecorded in these areas.  These areas have been 
indicated on Figure 2 of in Appendix 8.6. 
None  
Birds 
Breeding bird survey follows BTO Common Bird 
Census methodology.  
June 2017.  
Appendix 8.6  
Two survey visits were conducted in June 2017. The second visit 
comprised of an evening survey only due to personal threats to the 
surveyor‘s health and safety that became apparent during the 
following early morning survey.  
Site conditions not significantly different to 
those in 2014. 
The omission of the second part of the 
second 
survey 
visit 
in 
June 
is 
not 
considered to pose a significant limitation to 
the survey as the initial visit in June 2017 
identified a very similar assemblage as 
recorded in 2014.  
Further surveys will be conducted in 
February and March 2018.  
Bats 
Ground and climbing inspection of trees for bat 
roost potential, ground inspection of buildings near 
to the Project Site boundary, emergence/re-entry 
surveys of suitable trees and buildings, and bi-
monthly activity transects, and monthly static 
detector surveys. 
All bat work has been informed by the 2016 Bat 
Survey Guidelines (Ref. 8.3). Site valued as 
having High potential for supporting foraging and 
commuting bats.  
June 
– 
October 2017 
 
Appendix 8.7 
Following an initial ground-based assessment, trees which showed 
potential for supporting roosting bats were subject to a climbed 
survey There were 16 trees which were not climbed due to access 
and/or health and safety restrictions and there are two trees which 
were not climbed as they could not be re-found.  These trees did 
not have their bat roost potential category altered from the ground-
based assessment assigned category and all trees with a 
Moderate bat roost potential category subsequently had an 
emergence/re-entry surveys. Therefore this is not a significant 
limitation. 
Bat 
activity 
transect 
surveys 
will 
be 
undertaken bi-monthly in April and May 
2018. Until then, the BSG Ecology activity 
transect survey results for April and May 
2014 will be used to inform the assessment 
for those months.  
 
Static detectors will be deployed monthly in 
April and May 2018.  
 
Analysis of static detector data collected in 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-23 
 
Survey Type  
Description 
Date(s) 
Appendix and Limitations 
Comments 
Building 1 was not fully assessed due to time constraints (AECOM, 
2017). However this building is approximately 120m outside of the 
Project Site boundary and no further surveys were considered 
necessary on this building. Therefore this is not a significant 
limitation.  
Access was not granted to Buildings 6, 7 and 8 (collectively known 
as Abergelli Farm) to the west of, but outside, the Project Site and 
these could not be assessed for their potential to support roosting 
bats.  However, these buildings (BSG Buildings 3, 4 and 5) were 
previously assessed by BSG Ecology (Appendix 8.8).  The 
previous results will be used in the assessment.  
The identification of a mine shaft and adit within the Project Site 
boundary was not made until after the completion of the 2017 
emergence/re-entry surveys. These features could not be 
assessed for their potential to support roosting bats. However, 
there is potential that the adit is Building 4, and as such has been 
subject to roost assessment and emergence/re-entry survey; 
although the exact location of the adit cannot be currently 
confirmed. As such, there is potential for hibernating bats to be 
present within a newly identified mine shaft and adit.  
A number of limitations were identified for the walked transects, 
including occasionally missing listen points, completing the 
transect prior to the recommended finish time. These are not 
significant limitations.  
No bat activity transect surveys were undertaken in April or May 
and no static detectors were deployed in April or May.  This is not 
considered a significant limitation as the numbers of bats were 
fairly homogenous across the survey months.  
The first two emergence/re-entry surveys of Building B4 in August 
are ten days apart, as opposed to 2 weeks, as recommended by 
guidelines.  
These limitations are detailed in the baseline report.   
June – October 2017 will be undertaken in 
2018 when a complete data set is available. 
Until then, the static detector results from 
the BSG Ecology report will be used to 
inform the assessment – see row below.  
Static 
bat 
detectors 
Monthly static detector surveys.  
Methods informed by the 2012 Bat Survey 
Guidelines (Ref. 8.10).  
April 
– 
October 2014 
Appendix 8.8 
The access route in the south-west of the Project Site (Access 
Road Option 2) and the western part of the land surrounding the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400 
kV electrical substations were not included in the static surveys as 
access to these areas could not be arranged until late in June.  
This area is a small proportion of the Project Site that does not 
contain habitats significantly different to those present in other 
parts of the Project Site, and is unlikely to support a more diverse 
species assemblage than the rest of the Project Site. As such, it is 
not considered that this is a significant limitation to the survey 
methods.  
Based on observations in 2017, habitats 
have not changed significantly since 2014.  
Dormouse 
The survey followed the guidelines set out in the 
Dormouse 
Conservation 
Handbook 
Second 
Edition (Ref. 8.11).  
Nest tubes (n = 129) were deployed in suitable 
June 
– 
November 
2017 
Appendix 8.9 
On 26 June 2017 not all the tubes could be located due to 
extensive vegetation cover, 93 tubes were checked on this 
occasion; one all other occasions all of the tubes were checked.  
Based on observations in 2017, habitats 
have not changed significantly since 2014. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-24 
 
Survey Type  
Description 
Date(s) 
Appendix and Limitations 
Comments 
habitat and checked once a month.  
On 29 August 2017 three tubes had to be repositioned as they had 
fallen.  On 29 September three tubes had to be repositioned as 
they had fallen.  On 17 October 2017 it was noted that one of the 
tubes had fallen and snapped in half.  These incidents are not 
considered to be a significant limitation.  
Otter and water 
vole 
All watercourses within the Project Site boundary 
and extending to 100 m upstream/downstream of 
the Project Site boundary (where access allows) 
have been surveyed.  Survey work followed that is 
recommended in Monitoring the Otter (Ref. 8.12) 
and the Water Vole Mitigation Handbook (Ref. 
8.13). 
June 
and 
September 
2017 
Appendix 8.10 
There was heavy rain the night before the second survey in 
September 2017 which had the potential to wash away spraint or 
faeces evidence.  
Two watercourses (Afon Llan and a tributary of the Afon Llan) 
were not accessible at the time of survey due to dense vegetation 
obscuring the view of the banks, and land access permissions.  
These watercourses were partially viewed and were assessed as 
having suitability to support both species.  There is potential for 
signs of both species to have gone unrecorded.  
None 
Badger 
A search for signs of badger activity was 
undertaken within the study area.  
The survey method will be based on the standard 
approach 
detailed 
in 
the 
Mammal 
Society 
publication Surveying Badgers (Ref. 8.14). 
November 
2017 
Appendix 8.11 
There was heavy rain the night before and during the survey on 
the 21 November 2017 and the night before the survey on the 22 
November 2017 which had the potential to wash away evidence of 
latrines and dung pits. 
A number of agricultural fields, a small parcel of woodland to the 
south and the woodland (Waun Ffyrdd) to the south-west were not 
accessible at the time of survey due to presence of horses, access 
restrictions or dense vegetation. These habitats were partially 
viewed using binoculars and were assessed as having suitability to 
support badger. Despite access limitations the results of the 
survey are considered to provide an accurate representation of 
badger activity within the study area (see Section b) Study Area 
below). 
Despite access limitations the results of the 
survey are considered to provide an 
accurate representation of badger activity 
within the study area (see Section b) Study 
Area below).  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-25 
 
b) Consultation 
8.4.5 
The scope of the assessment has also been informed by ongoing consultation with 
statutory consultees throughout the design and assessment process, including 
NRW and CCS.  
8.4.6 
A summary of the comments raised and responses are detailed in Table 8-7.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-26 
 
Table 8-7: Summary of consultation responses that have informed the scope and methodology of the ecological assessment 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.38) 
 
 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS recommends that surveys are thorough, up to date and take account of other 
development proposed in the vicinity. 
 
Each survey report sets out the methodology used in line with standard guidance. 
These are summarised in Table 8-6.  
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.38) 
 
August 
2014 
 
These should include surveys for otter in accordance with the Recommendations of 
NRW. 
Otter surveys have been undertaken in line with standard methodology. The 
results are presented in Appendix 8.10 of this PIER. 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.39) 
 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS recommends that the assessment considers any potential impacts on the nature 
conservation sites in this area 
All designated sites within the zone of influence have been identified and 
assessment carried out in Section 8.7.  
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.40) 
 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS notes the comments from NRW welcoming the resurveying of the locally 
significant habitats in Spring/Summer, and expects there to be discussions with the 
Planning Ecologist for the local planning authority with regards to sensitive siting of the 
development to mitigate impacts to nature conservation interests. 
CCS and NRW have been consulted and have been provided with copies of 
survey reports. 
Detailed botanical surveys have been carried out in 2014 to inform the 
assessment and this information was used in the assessment in in Section 8.7.  
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.40) 
 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS recommends that the proposals should fully address the need to protect and 
enhance biodiversity. 
Addressed in Section 8.8 and in the Embedded Mitigation.  
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.40) 
August 
2014 
 
The assessment should cover habitats species and processes. 
Addressed in Section 8.7. 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.41) 
August 
2014 
 
The assessment should take into account air quality (including dust) and noise and 
vibration impacts, and cross reference should be made to these specialist reports. 
This chapter takes account of the Chapter: 6 Air Quality and Chapter 7: Noise 
where relevant. 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.43) 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS notes the comments of NRW regarding the presence of peat on site, and 
expects the ES to contain further clarification about the location of the peat and the 
impact of the proposed development upon it. 
Addressed in Chapter 10: Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.44) 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS notes the comments of NRW regarding the potential impact to local 
watercourses and recommends the maintenance of open watercourses with wide buffer 
strips in the design of the development. 
Buffer strips have been provided in the drainage strategy (Appendix E of Appendix 
9.1 of the PEIR). 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
August 
2014 
 
The SoS notes that Burry Inlet Ramsar Site and SPA, Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries 
SAC and Crymlyn Bog Ramsar Site and SAC are all located with 10 km of the Project 
Site. The submitted information should be sufficient for the competent Authority (CA) to 
Habitat Regulation Screening Assessment (Stage 1) has been prepared and the 
assessment is presented in the No Significant Effects Report (NSER, see 
Document Reference 5.5.0). The Report concluded that there would be no 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-27 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
para.4.2) 
make an appropriate assessment (AA) of the implications for the site if required by 
Regulation 61(1) of the Habitats Regulations. The applicant should note that the CA is 
the SoS. 
significant effects on Burry Inlet Ramsar Site and SPA Carmarthen Bay and 
Estuaries SAC and Crymlyn Bog Ramsar Site and SAC and Stage 2, Appropriate 
Assessment was not required. 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.4.5) 
August 
2014 
 
Where there may be potential impacts on the SSSIs, the SoS has duties under sections 
28(G) and 28(I) of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) (the W&C Act). 
All impacts in relation to SSSIs have been addressed in Section 8.7.  
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.4.8) 
August 
2014 
 
If applicants consider it likely that notification may be necessary under s28(I), they are 
advised to resolve any issues with the NCB before the DCO application is submitted to 
the SoS. If, following assessment by applicants, it is considered that operations affecting 
the SSSI will not lead to damage of the special interest features, applicants should make 
this clear in the ES. The application documents submitted in accordance with Regulation 
5(2)(l) could also provide this information. Applicants should seek to agree with the NCB 
the DCO requirements which will provide protection for the SSSI before the DCO 
application is submitted. 
All impacts in relation to SSSIs have been addressed in Section 8.7. 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.4.9) 
August 
2014 
 
Where a potential risk to an EPS is identified, and before making a decision to grant 
development consent, the CA must, amongst other things, address the derogation tests 
in Regulation 53 of the Habitats Regulations. Therefore the applicant may wish to provide 
information which will assist the decision maker to meet this duty. 
Addressed in Section 8.7 ES and additional information will be provided where 
necessary. In line with the current baseline no EPS licence is required. 
NRW 
13/09/2017 Email response with regards to the approach for the Natura 2000 site search radius for 
the HRA.  
Air Quality - Nature Conservation Interests 
For all SSSI within at least 2  km, and all SAC/SPA/Ramsar within 10 km, of the 
proposed plant, information should be included in the ES as follows: 
Concentrations of NOx (and SO2 if present in emissions) emitted by the proposed plant 
compared to critical levels for sensitive habitats at the above sites.  
Proposed plant emissions (Process Contribution/PC) should be compared as a 
percentage of the relevant critical level as well being compared to the PC added to the 
background (PEC), to give percentage figures.  
Levels of nutrient Nitrogen deposition and Acid deposition derived from the proposed 
plant (PC) should also be compared to site relevant critical loads for the above sites, and 
should be similarly compared to the PC and PEC for each feature's most sensitive critical 
load value, to give percentage values.  
In relation to a Peaking Power facility which operates sporadically, the assessment must 
assess a worst case scenario i.e. the maximum number of hours that the plant will be 
able to operate, over a year.  
Habitats Regulations Assessment 
NRW advise that a Shadow Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) should be recorded 
by the applicant (as per PINS guidance Note 10). The HRA should test the likely 
significant effects of the development for all relevant receptor SAC, SPA and Ramsar 
sites, in light of impact pathways from the development itself (for example aerial 
emissions). These effects should be tested alone and if no likely significant effects 
concluded for a particular impact pathway on a site(s) alone, in-combination effects 
should then be tested for those parameters, according to any residual effects from this 
development and other relevant plans/projects. Any likely significant effects identified 
should lead to the recording of a shadow Appropriate Assessment (or Report to Inform an 
A HRA has been undertaken in accordance with the requirement from NRW.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-28 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
Appropriate Assessment, or similar) to assess such effects further.  
CCS 
23/10/2017 Email response with regards to the request for comment on the scope of the ecological 
surveys.  
CCS advised that they would not be able to comment on an application prior to all survey 
work being completed and submitted. CCS will also require comment from NRW and 
likewise will not comment before all survey work is completed and submitted.  
CCS noted that the BSG Ecology reports that they had seen were robust but lacked 
analysis, conclusions and recommendations. CCS approved that the AECOM reports 
would be drawing conclusions based on the BSG Ecology work as well as the updated 
surveys.  
Based on the outcomes of the survey work CCS are likely to also require the following:  
An Ecological Management Plan detailing retained features, mitigation and enhancement 
for ecology. The document needs to include how any valued receptors identified and 
proposed mitigation/compensation areas will be monitored and managed in the long term 
(minimum 5 year rolling management plan).  
Construction Ecological Management Plan (CEMP) outlining how retained ecological 
features on and adjacent to the Project Site will be safeguarded during the construction 
phase.   
A lighting design strategy to identify those areas/features on-site that are particularly 
sensitive for nocturnal fauna. The strategy must show how and where external lighting 
will be installed (through the provision of appropriate lighting contour plans and technical 
specifications) so that it can be clearly demonstrated that areas to be lit will not disturb or 
prevent the above species crossing and utilising the Project Site. 
Comments noted.  
An Ecological Management and lighting design strategy have been produced.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-29 
 
 Study Area 
b)
8.4.7 
Each study area is displayed on a figure in the applicable appendix as referred to in 
Table 8-6.  
8.4.8 
In accordance with the published guidance for the Phase 1 Habitat survey (Ref. 
8.6) and the breeding bird survey (Ref. 8.15) the study area comprised the land 
within the Project Site boundary (Appendix 8.1, Figure 1; and Appendix 8.6, Figure 
1, respectively).  
8.4.9 
In accordance with the published guidance (Ref. 8.8) the reptile study area 
comprised suitable and accessible habitat within the Project Site boundary 
(Appendix 8.5, Figure 1).  
8.4.10 In accordance with the published guidance (Ref. 8.7) the great crested newt study 
area comprised suitable and accessible land within the Project Site boundary and 
within a 500 m buffer of the Project Site boundary, as well as a string of ponds 
extending outside of the buffer but in very close proximity to each other (Appendix 
8.4, Figure 1).  
8.4.11 The bat study area comprised the land within the Project Site boundary and the 
area within the Zone of Influence (ZoI) (Appendix 8.7 Figure 2). The Bat Survey 
Guidelines (Ref. 8.10) state that bat roost assessments must be considered within 
the Project Site boundary and the areas under the ZoI of the project.  For potential 
bat roosts the ZoI was assessed to be all land within the Project Site boundary; and 
using professional judgement, within a 50 m buffer surrounding area where the 
Generating Equipment Site (see Assessment Method below) will be situated due to 
noise, vibration and lighting during construction, operation and decommissioning. 
For potential bat commuting and foraging habitat the transect routes for bat activity 
surveys covered all accessible land within or crossed by the Project Site boundary.  
8.4.12 In accordance with the published guidance the otter (Ref. 8.12) and water vole 
study (Ref. 8.13) area comprised watercourses and water bodies within the Project 
Site boundary and within a 100 m radius of the Project Site boundary (Appendix 
8.9, Figure 1).  
8.4.13 In accordance with the published guidance (Ref. 8.11) the dormouse study area 
comprised suitable and accessible habitat within the Project Site boundary 
(Appendix 8.9, Figure 1).  
8.4.14 In accordance with the published guidance (Ref. 8.14) the badger study area 
comprised suitable and accessible habitat within the Project Site boundary and 
within a 100 m buffer of the Project Site boundary (Appendix 8.11, Figure 1).  
8.4.15 The study areas for the NVC survey (Appendix 8.2, Figures 1 & 2), invasive 
species, invertebrates (Appendix 8.3, Figures 1 & 2) and static bat detectors 
(Appendix 8.8, Figure 1) undertaken by BSG Ecology in 2014 (Appendix 8.8) were 
undertaken for a larger study area.  The current Project Site boundary is smaller 
than the previous site boundary used by BSG Ecology but is encompassed by it 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-30 
 
(Figure 8.1).  Therefore the surveys undertaken by BSG Ecology have captured the 
current Project Site boundary.  The results of the BSG Ecology surveys have been 
reviewed to extrapolate those results that are within the Project Site boundary only.  
c) Assessment Method 
8.4.16 The Ecological Impact Assessment (EcIA) has been undertaken with reference to 
the Chartered Institute for Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) 
Guidelines for Ecological Impact Assessment in the UK and Ireland (Ref. 8.2). A 
matrix-based approach has been used to ensure consistency across the PEIR. As 
per the CIEEM guidelines rankings are used with a clear definition of the criteria 
and thresholds that underpin them. See ‘Sensitivity or Value of Receptors’ and 
‘Magnitude’ below.  
8.4.17 The assessment describes the methods used to identify and assess the likely 
significant effects of the Project during the construction, operation and maintenance 
and decommissioning phases.  Baseline conditions are then described and 
subsequently the impact assessment is undertaken taking into account avoidance 
and mitigation measures that are inherent to the design, including the use of best 
practice construction.  
8.4.18 If necessary, additional mitigation, compensation and enhancement measures are 
then described followed by an assessment of the significance of residual effects.  A 
summary of the assessment is provided, together with relevant conclusions.  
8.4.19 The assessment is undertaken for each components of the Project as detailed in 
Chapter 3: Project and Site Description.  
8.4.20 Data received through consultation, desk-based investigations and field-based 
investigations will be used to allow relevant ecological features (including 
designated sites, ecosystems, habitat and species) of value (or potential value) to 
be identified, and the main factors contributing to their value described and related 
to available guidance.  
8.4.21 Ecological features may be important for multiple different reasons (e.g. rarity in a 
particular geographic context; role in habitat connectivity; or a species on the edge 
of their range).  Relevant reasons for which an ecological feature is important are 
described and considered in order to assign each relevant ecological feature an 
overall value.  
8.4.22 The value of ecological receptors identified is determined according to a 
geographical frame of reference and the conservation importance of a receptor.  
The value of receptors to be used in the EcIA is defined in Table 8-8.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-31 
 
Table 8-8: Evaluation of Value  
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
Guidelines 
Very High 
The receptor has little or no ability to absorb change without 
fundamentally altering its present character, is of very high 
environmental value, or of international importance.  
For example:  
An internationally designated site e.g. SPA, SAC, Ramsar, or site 
considered worthy of such designation. 
A regularly occurring globally threatened species.  
A viable area of a habitat type listed in Annex 1 of the Habitats 
Directive (92/43/EEC), or smaller area of such habitat which is 
essential to maintain the viability of a larger whole. 
A regularly occurring population of internationally important species 
listed in Annex II of the Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC). 
Any regularly occurring population of internationally important species 
that are rare or threatened in the UK or of uncertain conservation 
status (including individual species listed on Annex 1 of the EC Birds 
Directive) and/or listed as a qualifying feature of an SPA, SAC or 
Ramsar site. 
High 
The receptor has low ability to absorb change without fundamentally 
altering its present character, is of high environmental value, or of 
national importance.  
For example:  
A nationally designated site e.g. a SSSI, NNR or site that meets the 
criteria for such designation. 
A regularly occurring population of individual species listed or included 
on a SSSI citation as a reason for designation of a SSSI.  
A regularly occurring significant population/number of any nationally 
important species i.e. listed on the Wildlife and Countryside Act (1981) 
(as amended). 
A viable area of priority habitat type as identified in the Section 7 List 
of Habitats of Principal Importance for Conservation of Biological 
Diversity in Wales, or smaller areas of such habitat which are 
essential to maintain the viability of a larger whole. 
A regularly occurring, substantial population of a nationally rare 
species i.e. a species that contributes to the integrity of an SAC or 
SSSI but which are not cited as species for which the site is 
designated (SACs) or notified (SSSIs). 
Species present in nationally important numbers (>1% UK population). 
Any regularly occurring highly significant population of any bird listed 
on the RSPB Red List of High Conservation Concern. 
A species assemblage that includes one or more nationally important 
species (as defined above) that occurs regularly in significant 
numbers. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-32 
 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
Guidelines 
Medium 
The receptor has moderate capacity to absorb change without 
significantly altering its present character, has some environmental 
value, or is of regional importance.  
For example:  
Areas of internationally or nationally important habitats which are 
degraded but which could be readily restored. 
A regularly occurring, substantial population of a nationally scarce 
species i.e. priority species in the Section 7 List of Species of Principal 
Importance for Conservation of Biological Diversity in Wales. 
Viable areas of a Local BAP Priority habitat or small areas of such 
habitat which are essential to maintain the viability of the larger whole. 
A regularly occurring regionally significant population of a Local BAP 
Priority Species. 
Any regularly occurring significant population that is listed in a Local 
Red Data Book or a highly significant population of any bird listed on 
the RSPB Amber List of Medium Conservation Concern or substantial 
population of a regionally scare species. 
Species present in regionally important numbers (>1% regional 
population). Species occurring within SACs and SSSIs locally but not 
crucial to the integrity of the site. 
A site designated as a Local Nature Conservation Site (LNCS), 
Wildlife Site or Site of Interest for Nature Conservation (SINC). 
Low 
The receptor is tolerant of change without detriment to its character, is 
low environmental value, or local importance.  
For example:  
Areas identified as areas of conservation interest by organisations 
such as the local Wildlife Trust. 
A regularly occurring, substantial population of a species scarce in the 
local area or sites/features that are scarce within the locality or which 
appreciably enrich the local area’s habitat resource. 
Species, habitats or features that are a key component of a Local 
Nature Conservation Site (LNCS) or LNR. 
Locally significant populations of Red and Amber List species. A good 
example of a common or widespread habitat in the local area. 
Negligible 
The receptor is resistant to change and is of little environmental value.  
For example:  
A degraded/impoverished example of a common or widespread 
habitat in the local area. A habitat which offers little value for nature 
conservation e.g. arable field. 
Populations of common and widespread species. 
A species considered to enrich the local ecological resource within the 
context of the Parish or Neighbourhood. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-33 
 
iii. Magnitude 
8.4.24 Magnitude refers to size, amount, intensity and volume. It has been quantified 
where possible and expressed in absolute or relative terms e.g. the amount of 
habitat lost, percentage change to habitat area, percentage decline in a species 
population.  
8.4.25 Magnitude will then be ascribed a value as per Chapter 4: Approach to 
Environmental Impact Assessment.  
iv. Effect Definitions 
8.4.26 In line with the CIEEM (2016) guidelines, the terminology used within the EcIA 
draws a clear distinction between the terms ‘impact’ and ‘effect’.  For the purposes 
of the EcIA these terms are defined as follows: 
 
Impact – Actions resulting in changes to an ecological feature.  For example, 
demolition activities leading to the removal of a building utilised as a bat roost; 
and, 
 
Effect – Outcome resulting from an impact, acting upon the conservation status 
or structure and function of an ecological feature.  For example, killing/injury of 
bats and reducing the availability of breeding habitat because of the loss of a 
bat roost may lead to an adverse effect on the conservation status of the 
population concerned.  
8.4.27 When describing potential impacts (and where relevant the resultant effects) 
reference is made to the following characteristics: 
 
Beneficial/adverse – i.e. is the change likely to be in accordance with nature 
conservation objectives and policy: 
- 
Beneficial (i.e. positive) – a change that improves the quality of the 
environment, or halts or slows an existing decline in quality e.g. increasing 
the extent of a habitat of conservation value; or, 
- 
Adverse (i.e. negative) – a change that reduces the quality of the 
environment e.g. destruction of habitat or increased noise disturbance.  
 
Magnitude – the ‘size’, ‘amount’ or ‘intensity’ of an impact – this is informed on 
a quantitative basis where possible, and considers:  
- 
Spatial extent – the spatial or geographical area or distance over which the 
impact/effect occurs; 
- 
Duration – the time over which an impact is expected to last prior to 
recovery or replacement of the resource or feature. The likely duration of 
the impact should be quantified. Consideration has been given to how this 
duration relates to relevant ecological characteristics such as a species’ 
lifecycle. However, it is not always appropriate to report the duration of 
impacts in these terms. The duration of an effect may be longer than the 
duration of an activity or impact; 
- 
Reversibility – i.e. is the impact temporary or permanent. A temporary 
impact is one from which recovery is possible or for which effective 
mitigation are both possible and an enforceable. A permanent effect is one 
from which recovery is either not possible, or cannot be achieved within a 
reasonable timescale (in the context of the feature being assessed); and  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-34 
 
- 
Timing and frequency – i.e. consideration of the point at which the impact 
occurs in relation to critical life-stages or seasons.  
8.4.28 For each phase of the Project the assessment is structured and reported by valued 
ecological receptor with relevant potential impacts on that feature described in turn, 
and then the overall effect arising from those impacts reported.  For example, the 
impacts of roost loss, and light disturbance on retained roosts is documented, 
before a conclusion is reached on the overall effect on the conservation status of 
the local bat population concerned.  
v. Assessment of Significance of Effects 
8.4.29 A combination of the magnitude of the effect under consideration and the sensitivity 
of the receiving environment determines the significance of effect. This approach to 
the assessment of significance is outlined in Chapter 4: Approach to 
Environmental Impact Assessment.   
8.4.30 It should be noted that this general approach is a framework and should not be 
treated as a matrix. Within the chapter the significance of effects will be explained 
with reference to that particular discipline. 
8.5 
Baseline Environment 
8.5.1 
This section describes the baseline environmental characteristics for the Project 
Site and surrounding areas with specific reference to ecology.  
8.5.2 
A summary of the baseline conditions has been provided in the following sections.  
Detailed information such as survey data has been provided for each element in 
Appendices 8.1 – 8.19.  
 Designated Sites 
a)
8.5.3 
In addition to land within the Project Site the primary effects on the designated sites 
in the vicinity of the Project Site are as a result of emissions from the stack, which 
have the potential to alter the concentration of NOx and lead to a change in acid 
and nitrogen deposition.  In lieu of any specific guidance on the NRW website, 
NRW have provided the following advice in consultation.  
8.5.4 
“Nature conservation-sites should be screened against the relevant standards if 
they occur within specified distance criteria, as detailed below:  
 
SPAs, SACs or Ramsar sites within 10  km of the proposed Project; and,  
 
SSSIs within 2 km of the location of the proposed Project.” 
8.5.5 
Given the advice provided within the recently withdrawn Environment Agency H1 
guidance (Annex F Air Emissions) and the Air emissions risk assessment for your 
environmental permit guidance on the gov.uk website, it has been deemed 
appropriate to include a search for NNRs, LNRs, local wildlife sites and ancient 
woodland within 2 km of the Project also.  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-35 
 
i. 
Statutory Designated Sites 
8.5.6 
Using the MAGIC website three internationally designated sites were identified 
within 10 km of the proposed exhaust gas flue stack of the Power Generation Plant 
within the Project Site boundary (given as SN 65577 01324 at the time of 
conducting the desk study); and one nationally designated site within 2 km of the 
Project Site boundary.  The details of the sites are presented below in Table 8-9. 
The location of these sites in relation to the Project Site boundary is shown on 
Figure 8.2 – 8.3.  
8.5.7 
Statutory designated sites have been scoped in or out for further assessment in the 
EcIA, as detailed in Table 8-9, based upon a number of factors: 
 
Distance between the site and the Project Site boundary;  
 
Designation features e.g. habitats, species; 
 
Ecological connectivity or linkages (e.g. connecting watercourse/hydrology or 
movement of species) between the designated site and the Project Site; or 
 
A combination of the above.  
8.5.8 
Two distances have been provided; one from the Project Site boundary and 
another giving the distance from the proposed exhaust gas flue stack of the Power 
Generation Plant (given as SN 65577 01324 at the time of conducting the desk 
study) for assessing air quality effects.  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-36 
 
Table 8-9: Statutory designated sites 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification;  
Crymlyn Bog SAC 
and Ramsar  
6.4 km south-east 
6.8 km 
SAC 
Annex I habitats that are a primary reason for selection of this site:  
 Transition mires and quaking bogs; and,  
 Calcareous fens with Cladium mariscus and species of the 
Caricion davallianae.  
Annex I habitats present as a qualifying feature, but not a primary 
reason for selection of this site: 
 Alluvial forests with Alnus glutinosa and Fraxinus excelsior 
(Alno-Padion, Alnion incanae, Salicion albae).  
Ramsar 
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 1: 
Largest example of valley floodplain topogenous mire in South 
Wales, and one of the largest surviving fens in the west of Britain. 
Very few other sites are known to support a comparable complexity 
and diversity of vegetation.  
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 2: 
Supports a substantial population of the nationally-rare slender 
cotton-grass Eriophorum gracile, and a rich invertebrate fauna 
including many rare and highly localised species. 
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 3:  
The site supports 199 vascular plant species including 17 regionally-
uncommon and one nationally rare. 
Scoped In. Supports 
habitats 
sensitive 
to 
nutrient and nitrogen 
acid deposition.  
Carmarthen 
Bay 7.2 km 
A component part of the Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries/Bae 
Caerfyrddin ac Aberoedd European Marine Site. Partially overlaps 
Scoped In. Supports 
habitats 
sensitive 
to 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-37 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification;  
SAC 
5.7 km west 
Burry Port SPA and Ramsar.  
Annex I habitats that are a primary reason for selection of this site:  
 Sandbanks which are slightly covered by sea water all the time; 
 Estuaries; 
 Mudflats and sandflats not covered by seawater at low tide; 
 Large shallow inlets and bays;  
 Salicornia and other annuals colonizing mud and sand; and,  
 Atlantic salt meadows (Glauco-Puccinellietalia maritimae).  
Annex II species that are a primary reason for selection of this site: 
 Twaite shad Alosa fallax. 
Annex II species present as a qualifying feature, but not a primary 
reason for site selection:  
 Sea lamprey Petromyzon marinus; 
 River lamprey Lampetra fluviatilis;  
 Allis shad Alosa alosa; and, 
 Otter.  
nutrient 
deposition; 
receptors 
are 
not 
sensitive 
to 
nitrogen 
acidity 
deposition; 
hydrological links via 
the Afon Llan.  
Burry Inlet SPA and 
Ramsar 
7.2 km south-west  
8.9 km 
A component site of the Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries/Bae 
Caerfyrddin ac Aberoedd European Marine Site. Partially overlaps 
the Carmarthen Bay SAC.  
Burry Inlet is a large estuarine complex located between the Gower 
Peninsula and Llanelli in South Wales. It includes extensive areas of 
intertidal sand- and mud-flats, together with large sand dune 
systems at the mouth of the estuary. The site contains the largest 
continuous area of saltmarsh in Wales (2,200 ha). The estuary 
experiences large tidal fluctuations (about 8 m) which has the 
consequence of exposing a large extent of intertidal sediments on a 
Scoped In. Supports 
habitats 
sensitive 
to 
nutrient and nitrogen 
acid 
deposition; 
hydrological links via 
the Afon Llan. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-38 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification;  
regular basis. These are mostly sandy, but muddy substrates are to 
be found in more sheltered areas. The Burry Inlet regularly supports 
large numbers of overwintering wildfowl and waders that feed in the 
saltmarshes and on the intertidal areas.  
SPA 
This site qualifies under Article 4.2 of the Birds Directive 
(2009/147/EC ) by supporting populations of European importance 
of the following migratory species: 
Over winter:  
 Oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus, 13,590 individuals 
representing at least 1.5% of the wintering Europe& 
Northern/Western Africa population (5 year peak mean 1991/2 - 
1995/6); and, 
 Pintail Anas acuta, 1,772 individuals representing at least 3.0% 
of the wintering Northwestern Europe population (5 year peak 
mean 1991/2 - 1995/6).  
Assemblage qualification: A wetland of international importance. 
The area qualifies under Article 4.2 of the Directive (2009/147/EC) 
by regularly supporting at least 20,000 waterfowl. 
Over winter, the area regularly supports 34,962 individual waterfowl 
(5 year peak mean 1991/2 – 1995/6) including: curlew Numenius 
arquata, black-tailed godwit Limosa limosa islandica, dunlin Calidris 
alpina alpina, knot Calidris canutus, shoveler Anas clypeata, 
shelduck Tadorna tadorna, oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus, 
pintail Anas acuta, whimbrel Numenius phaeopus.  
Ramsar 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-39 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification;  
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 5: 
Assemblages of international importance. 
Species with peak counts in winter: 
41,655 waterfowl (5 year peak mean 1998/99-2002/2003).  
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 6: 
Species/populations occurring at levels of international importance. 
Qualifying Species/populations (as identified at designation): 
Species with peak counts in spring/autumn: 
 Common 
redshank, 
Tringa 
totanus, 
857 
individuals, 
representing an average of 0.7% of the GB population (5 year 
peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3).  
Species with peak counts in winter: 
 Northern pintail, Anas acuta, NW Europe 2,687 individuals, 
representing an average of 4.4% of the population (5 year peak 
mean 1998/9 – 2002/3); 
 Eurasian oystercatcher, Haematopus ostralegus, Europe & NW 
Africa – wintering 14,861 individuals, representing an average 
of 1.4% of the population (5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3); 
and,  
 Red knot, Calidris canutus islandica, W & Southern Africa 
(wintering) 3618 individuals, representing an average of 1.2% 
of the GB population (5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3). 
Species/populations identified subsequent to designation for 
possible future consideration under Criterion 6. 
Species with peak counts in winter: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-40 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification;  
 Northern shoveler, Anas clypeata, NW & C Europe 467 
individuals, representing an average of 1.1% of the population 
(5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3).  
Nant Y Crimp SSSI 
1.3 km west 
2.3 km 
Nant y Crimp is of special interest for its wet pastures, species-rich 
neutral grasslands and semi-natural woodland as well as associated 
scrub, which are host to several uncommon plant species. 
Notable plant species recorded at the site include petty whin Genista 
anglica, cranberry Vaccinium oxycoccos, narrow buckler fern 
Dryopteris carthusiana and whorled caraway Carum verticillatum, 
the latter an Atlantic species characteristic of unimproved pastures 
in the South Wales coalfield. 
In addition, there is also a colony of the marsh fritillary butterfly 
Euphydryas aurinia at the site. This is a declining species confined, 
in South Wales to wet agriculturally unimproved pastures where its 
food plant, devil’s bit scabious Succisa pratensis, grows in profusion. 
Scoped In. Supports 
habitats 
sensitive 
to 
nutrient and nitrogen 
acid deposition.  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-41 
 
ii. Non-Statutory Designated Sites 
8.5.9 
The desk study identified 12 non-statutory designated sites within 2 km of the 
Project Site boundary, one is a Wildlife Trust Reserve and 11 are Sites of Nature 
Conservation Interest (SNCIs). Details of the sites are presented below in Table 8-
10. The location of these sites in relation to the Project Site is shown on Figures 8.2 
– 8.3.  
8.5.10 Non-statutory designated sites have been scoped in or out for further assessment 
in the EcIA, as detailed in Table 8-10, based upon a number of factors: 
 
Distance between the site and the Project Site boundary;  
 
Designation features e.g. habitats; 
 
Ecological connectivity or linkages (e.g. connecting watercourse/hydrology or 
movement of species) between the site and the Project Site; or 
 
A combination of the above.  
8.5.11 Two distances have been provided; one from the Project Site boundary and 
another giving the distance from the proposed exhaust gas flue stack of the Power 
Generation Plant for assessing air quality effects.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-42 
 
Table 8-10: Non-statutory designated sites 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
from boundary 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification 
Llety-Morfil SNCI 
Within 
the 
Project 
Site boundary 
6 m 
Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, ancient woodland, 
structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, and purple moor-grass 
and rush pasture; and the Section 7 listed butterfly, wall 
Lasiommata megera. 
Scoped In. Within the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Coed Barcud Wildlife 
Trust Reserve 
Adjacent 
to 
the 
north-eastern Project 
Site boundary. 
1.1 km 
A previously improved grassland field, planted up to become a 
future woodland. Within the boundary of Rhoas Fawr SNCI. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary.  
Rhos 
Fawr 
SNCI 
Adjacent 
to 
the 
northern Project Site 
boundary 
1.1 km 
Supporting the habitats: woodland containing ancient woodland 
indicator species, structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, 
species-rich neutral grassland, purple moor-grass and rush pasture, 
and watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and a number of 
Section 7 listed bird species. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Felindre Grasslands 
SNCI 
Adjacent to the west 
of the Project Site 
boundary. 
1.6 km 
Native wet woodland, lowland mixed deciduous woodland, 
structurally-diverse and species-rich gorse scrub, and purple moor-
grass and rush pasture; and a number of Section 7 listed 
invertebrate and bird species, and the Schedule 1 listed birds barn 
owl Tyto alba and Northern goshawk Accipiter gentilis. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Middle 
Llan 
SNCI 
Adjacent 
to 
the 
southern Project Site 
boundary 
450 m 
Supporting the habitats: Continuous semi-natural linear vegetation 
and watercourse with exposure/erosion features. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-43 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
from boundary 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification 
Rhyd-Y-Pandy 
Valley 
and 
Grasslands SNCI 
70m east 
530 m 
Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, woodland containing 
ancient woodland indicator species, gorse stands, lowland meadow, 
species-rich neutral grassland, structurally-diverse and species-rich 
scrub, purple moor-grass and rush pasture, reedbeds, and 
watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and a number of 
Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species, and the Schedule 1 
listed birds barn owl and red kite Milvus milvus. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Waun 
Garn 
Wen 
SNCI 
130m west 
630 m 
Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, structurally-diverse 
and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and rush pasture, and 
watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and a number of 
Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Pant Lasau SNCI 
120m south 
690 m 
Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, lowland mixed 
deciduous woodland, gorse stands, lowland fen, structurally-diverse 
and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and rush pasture, and 
watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and a number of 
Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species. 
Scoped 
In. 
Close 
proximity 
to 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary. 
Lower Lliw Resivoir 
SNCI  
460m north 
1.6 km 
Supporting the habitats: woodland containing ancient woodland 
indicator species, gorse stands, species-rich bracken, structurally-
diverse and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and rush 
pasture, and watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and a 
number of Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species, and the 
Schedule 1 listed birds kingfisher Alcedo atthis, merlin Falco 
columbarius and red kite. 
Scoped In. Potential 
hydrological pathway 
via field drains and 
the 
Nant 
y 
Tarw; 
potential 
for 
aerial 
deposition.  
Cefn Forest Stream 
SNCI 
1.6 km 
Supporting the habitats: woodland containing ancient woodland 
indicator species, upland mixed ash woodland, native wet 
Scoped 
In. 
No 
hydrological 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-44 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
from boundary 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification 
230m west 
woodland, lowland mixed deciduous woodland, lowland meadow, 
species-rich neutral grassland, structurally-diverse and species-rich 
scrub, degraded lowland heath, lowland fen, purple moor-grass and 
rush pasture, ponds, and watercourse with exposure/erosion 
features; and a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird 
species, and the Schedule 1 listed barn owl. 
pathways; 
however, 
potential 
for 
aerial 
deposition.  
Cilfaen SNCI 
760m west 
1.5 km 
Supporting the habitats: wet woodland, woodland containing 
ancient woodland indicator species, and purple moor-grass and 
rush pasture. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Middle Lliw SNCI 
670m west 
1.7 km 
Supporting the habitats: ancient semi-natural woodland, woodland 
containing ancient woodland indicator species, structurally-diverse 
and species-rich scrub, gorse stands, species-rich neutral 
grassland, semi-improved lowland dry acid grassland, acid 
grassland with anthills, purple moor-grass and rush pasture, 
watercourse with exposure/erosion features, and species-rich 
bracken; and a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate species.  
Scoped In. Potential 
hydrological pathway 
via field drains and 
the 
Nant 
y 
Tarw; 
potential 
for 
aerial 
deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 1 
Adjacent 
to 
the 
eastern Project Site 
boundary. 
130 m  
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 2 
Within Project Site 
boundary.  
450 m 
Ancient Woodland Site of Unknown Category. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 3 
470 m 
Restored Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-45 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
from boundary 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification 
Adjacent 
to 
the 
northern Project Site 
boundary. 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 4 
120 m south 
570 m 
Restored Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 5 
320 m west 
970 m 
Restored Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 6 
Within Project Site 
boundary. 
1.1 km 
Restored Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 7 
470 m north-west 
1.1 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 8 
580 m north-west 
1.1 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 9 
360 m west 
1.2 km 
Restored Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 10 
750 m north-east 
1.3 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 11 
200 m north 
1.4 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 12 
1.4 km 
Plantation on Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-46 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
from boundary 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification 
Within Project Site 
boundary. 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 13 
810 m north-east 
1.4 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 14 
960 m north-west 
1.6 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 15 
970 m north-east 
1.6 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 16 
1.3 km south-east 
1.7 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 17 
730 m north-west 
1.8 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 18 
1.1 km north-east 
1.8 km 
Restored Ancient Woodland Site. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 19 
720 m north 
1.8 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 20 
1.1 km north-east 
1.9 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Ancient Woodland 21 
1.6 km south-east 
2.0 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-47 
 
Site and Statutory 
Designation and 
approximate 
distance/direction 
at nearest point 
from boundary 
Distance to 
the proposed 
exhaust gas 
flue stack 
Summary Designating Features  
Scoped In/Out of EcIA 
and Justification 
Ancient Woodland 22 
960 m north-west 
2.0 km 
Ancient Semi Natural Woodland. 
Scoped In. Potential 
for aerial deposition.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-48 
 
 Protected Species Records 
b)
8.5.12 A wide range of historical records of protected and/or notable species were 
received from SEWBReC.  Relevant records are reported in the PEA and 
corresponding technical baseline reports (Appendices 8.1 – 8.19).  Historic records 
and survey results are considered together in the evaluation of ecological features 
below.  
 Phase 1 Habitat Survey 
c)
8.5.13 The land within the Project Site boundary supports woodland, rows of trees, 
standalone trees, dense and scattered scrub, improved grassland, semi-improved 
grassland, marshy grassland, tall ruderal vegetation, running water, fences and 
bare ground (hard standing).  
8.5.14 A summary of data collected during the Phase 1 Habitat survey is presented in 
Table 8-11 below.  
Table 8-11: Phase 1 Habitats within the Project Site boundary 
Habitat Type 
Description 
Extent 
Broadleaved 
Woodland 
– 
Semi-Natural 
There are areas of semi-natural broadleaved woodland, 
including areas of wet woodland, RAWS and ASWU, within the 
Project Site boundary.  
1.76 
ha 
Broadleaved 
Woodland 
– 
Plantation 
There is one small area of broadleaved plantation woodland 
located within in the south of the Project Site boundary. 
0.02 
ha 
Scrub 
– 
Dense/ 
Continuous 
There are several areas of dense scrub, predominantly found in 
the south of the Project Site boundary, but with one are in the 
north and one in the centre of the Project Site boundary.  
0.25 
ha 
Scrub 
– 
Scattered 
Several areas of scattered scrub are found within the south of 
the Project Site boundary.  
0.04 
ha 
Rows of Trees 
– Broadleaved 
Rows of trees are predominantly located in between grassland 
fields and along road edges. The majority of these are located on 
top of earth banks constructed with stone and earth and covered 
in grass. 
1.4 km 
Standalone 
Trees 
There are four standalone oak trees within the Project Site 
boundary. 
4 
Ruderal – Tall 
Herb and Fern 
There are two areas of tall ruderal vegetation.  
0.02 
ha 
Semi-
Improved 
Neutral 
Grassland 
There is semi-improved neutral grassland present on road and 
track sides both within and adjacent to the Project Site boundary. 
There are several semi-improved grassland fields within the 
centre of the Project Site boundary.  
5.08 
ha 
Marshy 
Grassland 
There are frequent areas of marshy grassland dominated within 
the Project Site boundary. Marshy grassland areas are 
predominantly located in the south.  
9.08 
ha 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-49 
 
Habitat Type 
Description 
Extent 
Improved 
Grassland 
Areas of improved grassland are dominant throughout the 
Project Site boundary. The majority of these are sheep and 
horse grazed.  
16.55 
ha 
Running 
Water 
There are several wet ditches (watercourses) across the Project 
Site boundary.  
2.6 km 
Standing 
Water 
There are three ponds within the Project Site boundary. 
3 
Hedgerow with 
Trees 
– 
Species 
– 
Rich 
There is one native species-rich hedgerow alongside the access 
road to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station.  
72 m 
Hedgerow with 
Trees 
– 
Species 
– 
Poor 
There is one species-poor hedgerow within the Project Site 
boundary.  
91 m 
Intact 
Hedgerow 
– 
Species 
– 
Poor 
There are two intact species-poor hedgerows within the Project 
Site boundary.  
236 m 
Earth Bank 
There are several grass covered raised earth banks within the 
Project Site boundary.  
274 m 
Buildings 
There are two buildings within the Felindre Gas Compressor 
Station within the south of the Project Site boundary.  
0.02 
ha 
Fences 
There is frequent fencing including security and barbed wire 
fencing throughout the Project Site boundary. The fences have 
no ecological value. 
3.9 km 
 NVC Survey 
d)
8.5.15 Land within the Project Site boundary identified as being potentially ‘habitats of 
principal importance for nature conservation’ or identified as a SNCI was selected 
for inclusion in the NVC survey by BSG Ecology; habitats included areas of 
woodland, grassland and mire.  
8.5.16 NVC habitats within the Project Site boundary comprise:  
 
Two woodland communities/sub-communities; 
- 
W6e Alnus glutinosa – Urtica dioica woodland, Betula pubescens sub-
community; 
- 
W10 Quercus robur – Pteridium aquilinum – Rubus fruticosus woodland. 
 
Two mire sub-communities 
- 
M23a Juncus effusus/acutiflorus - Galium palustre rush-pasture, Juncus 
acutiflorus sub-community;  
- 
M25a Molinia caerulea – Potentilla erecta mire, Erica tetralix sub-
community.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-50 
 
 
Two neutral grassland NVC sub-communities; 
- 
MG6a Lolium perenne – Cynosurus cristatus grassland, typical sub-
community; and 
- 
MG10a Holcus lanatus – Juncus effusus rush pasture, typical sub-
community. 
8.5.17 All of these NVC communities are situated in one area within the Project Site 
boundary, adjacent to and partially within an area of Llety-Morfil SNCI.  
 Invasive Plant Species 
e)
8.5.18 Three invasive species subject to legal controls were identified within the Project 
Site boundary during the Phase 1 Habitat survey – Rhododendron Rhododendron 
ponticum, Japanese knotweed and Himalayan balsam.  
8.5.19 During the 2014 survey, BSG Ecology identified five invasive species subject to 
legal controls: Japanese knotweed; Himalayan balsam; rhododendron; floating 
pennywort Hydrocotyle ranunculoides; and montbretia Crocosmia × crocosmiiflora.  
8.5.20 The most frequently recorded species in both surveys were Japanese knotweed 
and Himalayan balsam.  Japanese knotweed was found to be strongly associated 
with roads and trackways within the Project Site.  Himalayan balsam was found to 
be strongly associated with woodland, stream corridors and ditches across the 
Project Site.  
8.5.21 Rhododendron was found on the edge of woodlands and dense scrub in the south 
of the Project Site.  
8.5.22 Montbretia was recorded in one location within the Project Site boundary along the 
existing Access Road.  
8.5.23 Floating pennywort was found in Pond 16.  
 
Protected Species Surveys 
f)
i. 
Invertebrates 
8.5.24 Several records of notable moths and the protected marsh fritillary butterfly 
Euphydryas aurinia were returned from the local records centre.  
8.5.25 Invertebrate surveys were carried out by BSG Ecology for moths, beetles, and 
aquatic macroinvertebrates (in ponds and watercourses).  There is no habitat with 
the potential to support marsh fritillary within the Project Site boundary and they are 
considered to be absent from the survey area.  
8.5.26 Only one pond was sampled by BSG Ecology within the Project Site boundary 
(Pond 16).  Thirty two different species were recorded during the pond survey.  The 
samples were generally dominated by Coleoptera (beetles), followed by Hemiptera 
(bugs). No scarce or threatened aquatic invertebrates were identified within the 
samples.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-51 
 
8.5.27 The watercourses were sampled and samples were analysed to at least family level 
as required to obtain a score for water quality for the watercourse sections 
sampled; where possible species were also recorded for completeness and so that 
any rare species collected would be identified.  The report did not highlight any rare 
species and concluded the watercourses were of generally good quality.  
8.5.28 Notable or Priority beetle, butterfly and moths species identified during the survey 
from within the Project Site boundary are given in Table 8-11 below.  Thirteen 
Section 7 species of moth were recorded during the survey. Their habitat 
requirements fit with the habitats present within the Project Site boundary, and as 
such it is likely they are present across the Project Site.  
Table 8-12: Notable and Priority beetle, butterfly and moth species from within the Project Site 
boundary 
Species 
Status 
Notes 
Nitulid beetle 
(Epuraea 
distincta) 
Nationally 
Scarce 
This saproxylic species is associated with fungi (notably 
bracket fungi) on trees, especially in wet woodland. 
Samples were taken from two pitfall traps in the woodland 
in the east of the Project Site. 
Melandryid beetle 
(Orchesia 
micans) 
Nationally 
Scarce 
This saproxylic species was found on the remnants of 
fungus on a single birch tree in the woodland in the east 
of the Project Site. 
Small heath 
butterfly 
(Coenonympha 
pamphilus) 
Section 7 
species 
Widespread and common, and found in a fairly wide 
variety of habitats with its main food plants being grasses.  
Specific location not given, although majority of butterflies 
were recorded in a narrow strip of flower-rich habitat in 
the southern-most part of the area that was surveyed. 
Dusky brocade 
moth 
(Apamea 
remissa) 
Section 7 
species 
The moth is associated with grasses, and there are 
patches of tall grassland along tracks, roads and on 
waste ground within the Survey Site. 
Garden tiger moth 
(Arctia caja) 
Section 7 
species 
This species has become scarce in eastern Glamorgan, 
but remains common in the south and west. 
Latticed heath 
moth 
(Chiasmia 
clathrata) 
Section 7 
species 
Common and widespread in southern Glamorgan. 
Broom moth 
(Melanchra pisi) 
Section 7 
species 
Locally, the favoured larval food plant is bracken. 
Shoulder-striped 
wainscot moth 
(Mythimna 
comma) 
Section 7 
species 
The larvae feed on a range of grasses. 
White ermine 
moth 
(Spilosoma 
lubricipeda) 
Section 7 
species 
The larvae feed on a range of herbaceous plants. 
Buff ermine moth 
(Spilosoma 
luteum) 
Section 7 
species 
The larvae have wide ranging feeding preferences. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-52 
 
Species 
Status 
Notes 
Blood vein moth 
(Timandra 
comae) 
Section 7 
species 
Common across England and Wales.  The moth is 
associated with a variety of herbaceous plants, but docks 
in particular, so it would have been well suited to the field 
margins and woodland within the Project Site boundary. 
Cinnabar moth 
(Tyria jacobaeae) 
Section 7 
species 
The moth is almost exclusively associated with common 
ragwort (Jacobaea vulgaris) and there are some small 
patches of this plant within the Survey Site, many of 
which support larvae of this species. 
Ear moth agg. 
moth 
(Amphipoea 
oculea) 
Section 7 
species 
The three ear moths that have been recorded in 
Glamorgan are all either uncommon or rare in the county. 
Small phoenix 
moth 
(Ecliptopera 
silaceata) 
Section 7 
species 
Common, widespread resident in Glamorgan, and found 
in a range of habitats. 
Dusky thorn moth 
(Ennomos 
fuscantaria) 
Section 7 
species 
Occurs wherever the food plant, ash is found. 
Rosy rustic moth 
(Hydraecia 
micacea) 
Section 7 
species 
Occurs in a wide range of habitats including gardens, 
waste ground, pasture, fens, marshes and woodland 
rides. 
 
ii. Amphibians 
8.5.29 Records of common toad Bufo bufo, palmate newt Lissotriton helveticus and 
common frog Rana temporaria were returned from the local records centre.  
8.5.30 Twenty-six ponds were subject to a Habitat Suitability Index (HSI) assessment to 
assess suitability for support breeding GCN.  From the results of the HSI 
assessment and where access allowed seven ponds were subject to further 
surveys for GCN including eDNA analysis.  
8.5.31 No GCNs were recorded during the surveys and the eDNA analysis returned 
negative results for each of the ponds for GCN.  A number of the ponds were found 
to support common toads, smooth newts Lissotriton vulgaris, and/or palmate newts.  
8.5.32 The majority of the habitat suitable for supporting common amphibians is present in 
the south of the Project Site boundary. The dominance of improved grassland fields 
with fenced boundaries in the north limits the suitability of the area for supporting 
amphibians.  
8.5.33 It is considered unlikely that GCN will be present within any of the ponds that were 
not surveyed or within 500 m of these ponds in surrounding habitat given the 
absence of GCN from all nearby ponds surveyed.  The development will require the 
removal of three ponds (Ponds 16, 22 and 23).  Pond 22 currently supports 
palmate newts and is likely to support other amphibians including frogs and toads 
as well as a range of common aquatic invertebrates.  Pond 16 was dry. Pond 23 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-53 
 
could not be assessed but if it contains water has the potential to support common 
amphibians.  
iii. Reptiles 
8.5.34 The desk study confirmed the presence of slow-worm (Anguis fragilis), grass snake 
Natrix helvetica helvetica, adder (Vipera berus) and common lizard Zootoca 
vivipara within 2 km, and the presence of grass snake and common lizard within 
the Project Site boundary.  
8.5.35 During the 2017 reptile survey, a total of 51 adult and juvenile common lizard 
observations were recorded, with a peak count of six adults recorded on one 
survey visit.  Observations of common lizard were recorded from across the reptile 
survey area within the Project Site boundary.  The majority of records were from the 
verges either side of the grassy track running through the centre of the Project Site 
and from the semi-improved neutral grassland present around the National Grid 
site.  
8.5.36 During the course of the reptile survey, male, female, and juvenile common lizards 
were recorded, which confirmed that there was a breeding population present 
within the Project Site boundary.  
8.5.37 Based on the survey results and the criteria laid out in Froglife Advice Sheet 10 
(Ref. 8.8), the Site supports a ‘Good population’ of common lizard.  
8.5.38 The Project Site does not meet the criteria for a ‘Key Reptile Site’.  
8.5.39 No grass snakes were identified within the 2017 reptile survey area including the 
area with the highest abundance during the 2014 surveys.  However, there is the 
potential for grass snake to be present within the Project Site boundary and to have 
gone unrecorded since:  
 
Grass snake are wide ranging;  
 
Pond 16, where the majority of the 2014 records were from, was mostly dry 
throughout the 2017 reptile survey period, making the areas less suitable for 
supporting grass snake; and,  
 
The area in the north of the reptile survey area where grass snake were 
recorded in 2014 could not be accessed for survey in 2017 due to grazing 
livestock.  
8.5.40 As such, it should be assumed grass snake is likely to be present at low densities 
within the Project Site boundary and surrounding habitat.  
iv. Breeding Birds 
8.5.41 The BSG Ecology surveys identified nine Section 7 bird species (previously 
referred to as species of principal importance for nature conservation in S42 of the 
NERC Act 2006, now repealed by Environment (Wales) Act 2016) comprising 
cuckoo Cuculus canorus, grasshopper warbler Locustella naevia, dunnock Prunella 
modularis, house sparrow Passer domesticus, linnet Carduelis cannabina, lesser 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-54 
 
redpoll Acanthis cabaret, skylark Alauda arvensis, song thrush Turdus philomelos, 
and tree pipit Anthus trivialis were considered likely to breed on-site.  
8.5.42 All nine Section 7 species recorded are also red-listed species of conservation 
concern in Wales, with the exception of dunnock (which is amber-listed).  An 
additional seven amber-listed species, bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula, mistle thrush 
Turdus viscivorus, meadow pipit Anthus pratensis, reed bunting Emberiza 
schoeniclus, common redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus, whitethroat Sylvia 
communis and willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilis were also considered to have 
bred.  
8.5.43 No territories of species listed under Schedule 1 Part 1 of the Wildlife & 
Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) (Schedule 1 species) were recorded, although 
two Schedule 1 species were recorded during the surveys, as follows. A pair of red 
kite  was recorded mobbing a peregrine falcon Falco peregrinus in May.  A pair of 
red kite was also recorded flying over the breeding bird survey area on the same 
survey day. Given the timing of the records, and that at least one pair were 
recorded during survey it is likely that red kite breed locally but that the single 
record of peregrine referred to a transient bird.  No evidence was found to suggest 
breeding of either species occurred within the breeding bird survey area during 
2014.  
8.5.44 The single breeding bird survey undertaken in 2017 revealed the same nine 
Section 7 bird species as recorded during the 2014 survey (cuckoo, grasshopper 
warbler, dunnock, house sparrow, linnet, lesser redpoll, skylark, song thrush and 
tree pipit). Nine further species listed on the Amber List were also recorded 
(bullfinch, common redstart, meadow pipit, mistle thrush, meadow pipit, reed 
bunting, stock dove, whitethroat and willow warbler) although no species listed on 
Schedule 1 were recorded within the Project Site boundary. The survey results from 
2017 are largely found to be in line with what was identified in 2014 and there is  no 
significant difference in species breeding within the Project Site between the two 
surveys.  
v. Bats 
8.5.45 The desk study identified no sites designated for bats within 10 km of the Project 
Site boundary.  The desk study confirmed the presence of the following species 
from within 2 km of the Project Site boundary: Daubenton's Myotis daubentonii, 
Natterer's Myotis nattereri, Noctule Nyctalus noctule, pipistrelle species Pipistrellus 
sp., common pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus, soprano pipistrelle Pipistrellus 
pygmaeus, long-eared species Plecotus sp., brown long-eared Plecotus auritus 
and generic records of bat species Chiroptera. None of these records of bats were 
from within the Project Site.  
8.5.46 The desk study identified the following records of known roost sites within 2 km of 
the Project Site: 
 
A noctule tree roost approximately 1 km north-west of the Project Site 
boundary; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-55 
 
 
Common pipistrelle roost approximately 1.3 km east of the Project Site 
boundary; 
 
A common pipistrelle roost approximately 1.8 km south-east of the Project Site 
boundary; 
 
A common pipistrelle roost approximately 1 km southeast of the Project Site 
boundary; 
 
A common pipistrelle roost approximately 1 km north-west of the Project Site 
boundary; 
 
A soprano pipistrelle roost approximately 2 km south-west of the Project Site 
boundary; 
 
A soprano pipistrelle roost approximately 2 km north-west of the Project Site 
boundary; 
 
A long-eared bat and brown-long-eared bat  roost approximately 1.6 km east of 
the Project Site boundary; and 
 
A long-eared bat and brown long-eared bat roost approximately 1.1 km north-
west of the Project Site. 
8.5.47 The specific locations of the bat roosts are confidential.  
Bat Roosts 
8.5.48 There are no buildings suitable for supporting bats within the Project Site.  
8.5.49 Buildings adjacent to the Project Site were assessed. None of the buildings 
surveyed by AECOM supported bat roosts. Previous surveys by BSG in 2014 
confirmed roosts in buildings not surveyed by AECOM in 2017 (Appendix 8.8).   
 
AECOM Building 1:  Unknown Roost Status. Not surveyed by AECOM or BSG 
Ecology, Building is approximately 125m from the Project Site boundary. 
 
AECOM Building 2:  Confirmed as a long-eared and pipistrelle roost by BSG in 
2014 (Appendix 8.8). Not surveyed by AECOM. It is approximately 120 m 
outside of the Project Site boundary.  
 
AECOM Building 3:  No Roost. 
 
AECOM Building 4:  No Roost. 
 
AECOM Building 5:  No Roost. 
 
AECOM Building 6:  No Roost. 
 
AECOM Building 7:  Confirmed as a lesser horseshoe, long-eared and 
pipistrelle roost by BSG Ecology in 2014 (Appendix 8.8). Not surveyed by 
AECOM. It is approximately 90 m outside of the Project Site boundary. 
 
AECOM Building 8: Unknown Roost Status.  BSG Ecology internal inspection 
did not find evidence of bats but not all areas were accessible (Appendix 8.8). 
Due to the bat roost features identified by BSG Ecology an internal inspection 
only is not sufficient to determine if this building is being used as a bat roost. 
Not surveyed by AECOM. The building is approximately 65 m from the Project 
Site boundary. 
8.5.50 Tree 19 is a lone male or non-breeding female common pipistrelle summer roost.  
No other trees were identified as bat roosts. 
8.5.51 The mine shaft and adit may have the potential to support hibernating bats. 
Surveys have not been undertaken to confirm this.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-56 
 
Bat Activity – Walked Transects 
8.5.52 At least 10 species of bat were recorded foraging and/or commuting in close 
proximity of and within the Project Site.  The following species have been identified 
during bat surveys at the Project Site: 
 
Lesser horseshoe; 
 
Common pipistrelle; 
 
Soprano pipistrelle; 
 
Nathusius’ pipistrelle; 
 
Daubenton’s; 
 
Natterer’s; 
 
Mytois species; 
 
Noctule; 
 
Serotine; 
 
Long-eared species; and, 
 
Indeterminate species.  
8.5.53 Nathusius’ pipistrelle and serotine were not identified during the BSG 2014 activity 
transect surveys (Appendix 8.8).  Leisler’s bat was identified during the BSG 
Ecology 2014 activity transect surveys (Appendix 8.8) but was not identified during 
the 2017 transect surveys.  
8.5.54 Common and soprano pipistrelles were the most commonly recorded species in the 
Project Site during 2017.  Overall pipistrelle species comprised 86.7 % of all passes 
recorded on the transect surveys; they were also the most commonly recorded 
species during the emergence/re-entry surveys. Pipistrelle species comprised of 
89.5% of the passes recorded on the North Transect and 84.6% of the passes 
recorded on the South Transect.   
8.5.55 Pipistrelle species were similarly the most commonly recorded species during the 
BSG Ecology 2014 transects surveys (Appendix 8.8).  
8.5.56 Two passes of Nathusius’ pipistrelle were recorded during the July transect 
surveys, one record from the South Transect and one record from the North 
Transect, making up 0.2% of total bat passes.  
8.5.57 Overall Myotis species comprised 9.8% of the total calls recorded on the transect 
surveys. Myotis species comprised 7.7% of the passes recorded on the North 
Transect and 11.5% of the calls recorded on the South Transect  
8.5.58 Activity levels for Myotis species during the 2017 transects surveys were 
comparable with the activity levels recorded during the BSG Ecology 2014 transect 
surveys (Appendix 8.8).  
8.5.59 Overall noctule and serotine bats comprised 1.8% of the passes recorded on 
transect surveys. Noctule and serotine bats comprised of 1.9% of the passes 
recorded on the North Transect and 1.8% of the passes recorded on the South 
Transect.  BSG Ecology did not breakdown these species into percentages but 
figures are comparable between years.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-57 
 
8.5.60 Long-eared and possible long-eared bat comprised a total of 0.5% of the passes 
recorded on the North Transect and 0.6% recorded on the South Transect surveys.  
BSG Ecology did not breakdown these species into percentages but figures are 
comparable between years. 
8.5.61 There was a single lesser horseshoe bat pass, recorded on the South Transect, 
equating to 0.2% of the total passes for the South Transect and 0.1% of the total 
passes for the Project Site.  This was recorded in August 2017.  BSG Ecology also 
recorded a single pass of lesser horseshoe on the South Transect.  
8.5.62 Higher levels of activity were recorded in the Southern Transect (513 bat passes; 
15.2 Bat Activity Index (BAI)), compared to the Northern Transect (427 bat passes, 
13. 2 BAI). The bat activity levels across the Project Site however are broadly 
similar. In total 940 bat passes were recorded.  
8.5.63 Bat activity was recorded across the Project Site (Figure 5.1). Vegetated stream or 
wet ditch corridors appear to be important for bats within the Project Site. The 
distribution of bat calls suggests the following general patterns of activity. This is a 
qualitative assessment only: 
 
Pipistrelle bats were recorded across the Project Site;  
 
Myotis Species showed some association with mature tree lines and/or areas 
near water; 
 
Noctule and Serotine bats were primarily recorded at height over open fields 
across the  Project Site; 
 
Long-eared bats showed some association with mature tree lines and are 
focused more towards the centre and south-east of the Project Site.  The 
passes recorded are within approximately 315m to 700m of the BSG confirmed 
long-eared roost in Building 7 and approximately 270m and 850m of the BSG 
confirmed long-eared roost in Building 2; and 
 
The single lesser horseshoe was recorded on the South Transect along a 
mature tree line approximately 900 m south of the closest known lesser 
horseshoe roost in Building 2. 
8.5.64 Bat activity was recorded at the Project Site between June and October 2017.  Bat 
surveys for April and May are due to be undertaken in 2018 with the results to be 
included in the ES for DCO submission, or supplementing the DCO Application 
prior to examination.  
8.5.65 August had the highest BAI for both transects. The North Transect had a BAI of 
17.4 and the South Transect had a BAI of 24.9. 
8.5.66 For the North Transect, the second highest BAI was 14.5 in June, and the third 
highest was 14.0 in July. 
8.5.67 For the South Transect, the second highest BAI was 15.5 in July and the third 
highest was 14.5 in October.   
8.5.68 Young bats are typically born in June and July and during August the young are 
starting to leave the roosts to fly and feed. October is part of the bat mating period 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-58 
 
and a time when bats are extensively foraging for food as they are looking to store 
fat for the winter hibernation period. The general ecology of bat species is likely to 
influence the temporal activity for the Project Site.  
Bat Activity – Static Detectors 
8.5.69 Static detector units D2, D3, D4 and D8 from the 2014 survey have been used to 
assess bat activity within the Project Site boundary.  
8.5.70 Table 8-13 gives details of the number of passes and relative activity recorded 
during automated detector surveys.  
Table 8-13: Number of bat passes (B) and relative activity (B/h) at automated detector locations from 
the 2014 survey 
Detector number 
Survey 
Duration* 
(hrs) 
Number 
of 
bat 
passes (B) 
Relative 
activity 
B/h 
D2 
108.93 
3573 
32.8 
D3 
36.93 
4273 
115.7 
D4 
24.69 
3898 
157.9 
D8 
34.43 
2613 
75.9 
Total 
204.98 
14357 
70.0 
*This information was not directly extracted from the 2014 report. Survey duration was derived by 
dividing the number of bat passes by the relative activity.  
8.5.71 The relative activity of bat species recorded at the detector locations is presented in 
Table 8-14. 
Table 8-14: The relative activity of bat species recorded at all detector locations 
 
Detector Number 
Species 
D2 
D3 
D4 
D8 
Total 
B/h* 
Nathusius' pipistrelle 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
<0.01 
<0.01 
Common / Nathusius' pipistrelle 
<0.1 
0.1 
<0.1 
<0.1 
<0.1 
Common pipistrelle 
14.6 
19.1 
13.4 
22.7 
16.6 
Common / soprano pipistrelle 
0.2 
0.6 
1 
0.7 
0.5 
Soprano pipistrelle 
5.2 
2.6 
13.0 
9.5 
6.4 
Greater horseshoe bat 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
1.0** 
<0.1 
Lesser horseshoe bat 
0.0 
<0.1 
<0.1 
0.0 
<0.1 
Long-eared bat sp. 
<0.1 
<0.1 
<0.1 
<0.1 
<0.1 
Myotis species 
0.9 
1.6 
2.7 
2.2 
1.5 
Noctule 
0.2 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0.2 
Noctule / Leisler's bat 
<0.1 
0.1 
0.1 
<0.1 
<0.1 
Serotine / Leisler's bat 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.2 
<0.1 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-59 
 
 
Detector Number 
Serotine 
0.0 
<0.1 
0.0 
<0.1 
<0.1 
Noctule / Leisler’s bat / serotine 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.2 
<0.1 
Unidentified bat species 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.2 
<0.1 
Total 
21.1 
24.4 
30.5 
36.7 
25.6 
*This information was not directly extracted from the 2014 report. Bat counts were 
derived by multiplying the relative activity of bats at each logger location by the total 
number of survey hours at that logger location. The bat passes per hour were 
calculated by dividing the bats counts by total number of hours at each logger 
location. For the purposes of these calculations, the values provided as <0.1 were 
rounded to 0.1 and the value provided as <0.01 were rounded to 0.01.  
**Extrapolating the text from the 2014 report it was possible to change the count for 
greater horseshoe to n=1 (see summary text below). 
8.5.72 Across the survey season, the highest relative activity rate recorded was for 
common pipistrelle, at an average of 16.6 B/h followed by soprano pipistrelle (6.4 
B/h). The next most frequently recorded species were Myotis sp. (1.5 B/h) and 
noctule (0.2 B/h).  
8.5.73 The data presented in Table 8-15 below indicates that overall bat activity dropped 
from spring (April and May; 58.8 B/h) to summer (June – August; 20.9 B/h) and 
again in autumn (September and October 15.4 B/h).  
Table 8-15: Number of passes (B) and relative activity (B/h) of bats at each detector location 
Detector 
number 
Spring (April- 
May) 
Summer (June- 
August) 
Autumn 
(September- 
October) 
Total 
B/h 
B 
B/h 
B 
B/h 
B 
B/h 
D2 
1240 
26.3 
2333 
27.3 
547 
8.8 
21.2 
D3 
3252 
87.1 
1021 
11.9 
258 
4.1 
24.4 
D4 
1508 
79.2 
2390 
27.9 
1198 
19.2 
30.5 
D8 
2501 
60.9 
112 
4.7 
1778 
30.5 
35.6 
Total 
8501 
58.8 
5856 
20.9 
3781 
15.4 
27.0 
8.5.74 Myotis bats were recorded at all of the static locations and during every 
deployment. The nocturnal activity of Myotis bats showed that passes were 
typically being recorded first by detectors at around 40 minutes after sunset, with a 
peak around one hour after sunset and consistent activity throughout the night until 
around 40 minutes before sunrise.  
8.5.75 Noctule bats were recorded at all of the static locations. The nocturnal activity of 
Noctule bats showed that passes were typically being recorded first by detectors at 
around 20 minutes after sunset, and a peak in activity around 40 minutes after 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-60 
 
sunset followed by consistently low activity throughout the night until around 20 
minutes before sunrise.  
8.5.76 Serotine passes were recorded at detectors D3 and D8, in the woodland in the east 
of the Project Site and the woodland around the Felindre Gas Compressor Station 
in the west respectively. All passes of Leisler’s bat / serotine occurred at detector 
D8.  All of the bat passes were recorded within the first 60 minutes after sunset with 
the exception of one Leisler’s bat pass and one Leisler’s bat / serotine pass which 
were both recorded in the middle of the night.  
8.5.77 Only one Nathusius’ pipistrelle pass was recorded, during the autumn at D8 (in the 
south east of the Project Site).  The nocturnal activity of all pipistrelle bats showed 
that passes were typically being recorded first by detectors at around 20 minutes 
after sunset, with a peak from 40 to 80 minutes after sunset. There was constant 
activity recorded throughout the night until around 20 minutes before sunrise, with a 
secondary peak around 60 to 40 minutes before sunrise.  
8.5.78 Long-eared bat sp. was recorded at all detectors with peak activity levels at D2 on 
the eastern side of the Project Site next to a stream and row of trees.  
8.5.79 Four lesser horseshoe bat passes were recorded across two detector locations, D3 
and D4, located on the eastern side next to woodland and in the south of the 
Project Site, respectively. A single pass was recorded from D3 on 18 June 2014, 
with two passes recorded from D4 on 25 April 2014. Bat passes were recorded 
between 1 – 1.5 hours after sunset or 55 minutes – 1.5 hrs before sunrise in spring 
and summer, and in the middle of the night (23:45) in autumn.  
8.5.80 One greater horseshoe bat pass was recorded at detector D8, in the west of the 
Project Site, during the middle of the night in September 2014.  
vi. Dormouse 
8.5.81 No records of dormouse were returned from the local records centre.  No evidence 
of dormouse was identified during the field surveys.  
vii. Water Vole 
8.5.82 No records of water vole were returned during the desk study.  
8.5.83 Four watercourses that had potential for supporting water vole were recorded within 
the water vole survey area.  Two of these had limited potential for water vole due to 
the relative isolation of these watercourses within the landscape (i.e. not connected 
to watercourses with potential to support water vole).  Burrows suitable for water 
vole were found but there was no evidence of current occupancy.  It was therefore 
not possible to determine if the burrows had been excavated by brown rat or water 
vole. It is likely that water vole are absent from the water vole survey area.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-61 
 
viii. Otter 
8.5.84 A total of thirteen watercourses within the otter survey area were suitable for 
supporting commuting otter and two watercourses were suitable for supporting 
foraging otter, holt and couch creation.  One potential couch was identified with a 
trampled vegetation track leading to it which suggested occasional use by a 
mammal.  Two mammal tracks were identified; these may have been fox or another 
mammal.  No spraints, holts, footprints, anal jelly or other signs were identified 
during the otter surveys.  
8.5.85 One couch and slide next to a watercourse with a pathway leading from an area of 
marshy grassland, and feeding remains and a spraint were identified during the 
badger survey.  These were recorded outside of the otter survey area but adjacent 
to a watercourse that through and immediately adjacent to the Project Site 
boundary.  
8.5.86 Due to the confirmed presence of otter upstream from the Project Site in 2015, the 
presence of spraints and a footprint from a nearby pond in May 2017 and the 
presence of a couch, slide pathway, feeding remains and a spraint from a 
watercourse that flows through and immediately adjacent to the Project Site 
boundary it can be concluded that otters are still active in the locality.  As such it is 
likely that otters use the suitable watercourses within the otter survey area and 
Project Site boundary for occasional forging, commuting, resting and holt creation; 
although no evidence of holts was identified during the survey.  
ix. Brown Hare 
8.5.87 No records of brown hare (Lepus europaeus) were returned from the local records 
centre.  
8.5.88 Sightings of brown hare were made during surveys for other species. A targeted 
survey for brown hare was not undertaken.  
8.5.89 Scrub, woodland edge and grassland habitat present throughout the Project Site 
boundary are suitable for supporting the species.  
x. Badger 
8.5.90 A number of badger records were returned from the local records centre, including:  
 
Adjacent to the Project Site boundary, near to the Felindre Gas Compressor 
Station site; 
 
350 m south; 
 
Penllergaer Valley Woods; 
 
1 km south; 
 
1.4 km south; and 
 
1.5 km north.  
8.5.91 The badger survey area contains suitable habitat for supporting badgers. The 
scrub, woodland edge and grassland habitat present throughout the Project Site 
boundary are suitable for supporting the species. A total of five badger setts were 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-62 
 
recorded during the survey (one of which was immediately adjacent to the Project 
Site boundary and the other four were well outside of the Project Site boundary).  
8.5.92 The survey identified signs of badger actively using the Project Site. Badger signs 
recorded included latrines, dung pits and mammal paths. It is therefore likely that 
badger use the Project Site on a regular basis for foraging and to commute 
between foraging areas within the wider landscape. 
 Evaluation of Ecological Features 
g)
8.5.93 Table 8-16 below summarises the evaluation of ecological features of nature 
conservation interest within the Project Site boundary for each habitat and 
species/species group, and within 2 km of the Project Site boundary for each 
designated site, which could potentially be affected by the Project and are 
assessed within the EcIA.  
Table 8-16: Evaluation of Ecological Features 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
Statutory Designated Sites 
Crymlyn Bog SAC and 
Ramsar 
A statutory designated site that supports habitats 
and species assessed to be of international and 
national importance.  
Very High 
Carmarthen Bay SAC 
A statutory designated site that supports habitats 
and species assessed to be of international 
importance.  
Very High 
Burry Inlet SPA and 
Ramsar 
A statutory designated site that supports habitats 
and species assessed to be of international 
importance.  
Very High 
Nant Y Crimp SSSI 
A statutory designated site that supports habitats 
and species assessed to be of national 
importance.  
High 
Non-Statutory Designated Sites 
Llety-Morfil SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Coed Barcud Wildlife 
Trust 
Reserve 
boundary. 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitat assessed to be of local importance.  
Low 
Rhos Fawr SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Felindre 
Grasslands 
SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-63 
 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
Middle Llan SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats assessed to be of county importance.  
Medium 
Rhyd-Y-Pandy 
Valley 
and Grasslands SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Waun Garn Wen SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Pant Lasau SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Cefn 
Forest 
Stream 
SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Lower 
Lliw 
Resivoir 
SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Cilfaen SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats assessed to be of county importance.  
Medium 
Middle Lliw SNCI 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 1 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 2 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 3 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 4 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 5 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 6 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 7 
A non-statutory designated site that supports Medium 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-64 
 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Ancient Woodland 8 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 9 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 10 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 11 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 12 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 13 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 14 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 15 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 16 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 17 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 18 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 19 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 20 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-65 
 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
Ancient Woodland 21 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Ancient Woodland 22 
A non-statutory designated site that supports 
habitats and species assessed to be of county 
importance.  
Medium 
Habitats 
Broadleaved Woodland 
– Semi-Natural 
This habitat is botanically diverse and contributes 
to the variety of resources in the local area. 
Lowland mixed deciduous woodland is a Section 
7 habitat.  
Areas of semi-natural broadleaved woodland 
within the Project Site boundary that are also 
designated as SNCI and Ancient Woodland are 
evaluated under the designated sites section of 
this table.  
Medium 
Broadleaved Woodland 
– Plantation 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area. Lowland mixed 
deciduous woodland is a Section 7 habitat.  
Medium 
Scrub 
– 
Dense/ 
Continuous 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area, but consists of 
widespread and abundant species.  
Low 
Scrub – Scattered 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area, but consists of 
widespread and abundant species.  
Areas of scrub within the Project Site boundary 
that are also designated as SNCI are evaluated 
under the designated sites section of this table.  
Low 
Rows 
of 
Trees 
– 
Broadleaved 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area, but consists of 
widespread and abundant species.  
Low 
Standalone Trees 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area, but consists of 
widespread and abundant species. 
Low 
Ruderal – Tall Herb and 
Fern 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area, but consists of 
widespread and abundant species. 
Low 
Semi-Improved Neutral 
Grassland 
Although this habitat is botanically diverse and 
contributes to the variety of resources in the local 
area, it consists of widespread and abundant 
species and is currently tightly grazed, reducing 
the value.  
Neutral grassland lowland meadows are a 
Low 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-66 
 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
Section 7 habitat.  
Marshy Grassland 
This habitat is botanically diverse and contributes 
to the variety of resources in the local area.  
Areas of marshy grassland within the Project Site 
boundary that are also designated as SNCI are 
evaluated under the designated sites section of 
this table.  
Purple moorgrass and rush pastures are a 
Section 7 habitat; a small area of marshy 
grassland within the Project Site boundary can 
be classified as this habitat type.  
Areas of marshy grassland within the Project Site 
boundary that are also designated as SNCI are 
evaluated under the designated sites section of 
this table.  
Medium 
Improved Grassland 
Improved grassland is the dominant habitat 
within the Project Site boundary and beyond in 
the wider landscape. At the time of survey, it was 
being utilised for grazing horses and sheep. 
Improved grassland is botanically poor and has 
no more than local value.  
Due to the negligible valuation, this feature will 
be scoped out of any further assessment.  
Negligible 
Running Water 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area.  
 
Low 
One watercourse (Afon Llan) can be classed as 
a Section 7 habitat (river). 
Medium 
Standing Water 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area.  
Ponds are a Section 7 habitat.  
Medium 
Hedgerow with Trees – 
Species – Rich 
This habitat is botanically diverse and contributes 
to the variety of resources in the local area.  
Hedgerows are a Section 7 habitat.  
Medium 
Hedgerow with Trees – 
Species – Poor 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area.  
Hedgerows are a Section 7 habitat.  
Medium 
Intact 
Hedgerow 
– 
Species – Poor 
This habitat contributes to the variety of 
resources in the local area.  
Hedgerows are a Section 7 habitat.  
Medium 
Earth Bank 
Earth banks are evaluated under the habitat 
which they support – for example, grassland. As 
N/A 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-67 
 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
such, this feature will be scoped out of any 
further assessment.  
Buildings 
Buildings within the Project Site boundary have 
no ecological value.  
Negligible 
Fences 
Fences have no ecological value.  
Due to the negligible valuation, this feature will 
be scoped out of any further assessment. 
Negligible 
Hard Standing 
Hard standing has no ecological value.  
Due to the negligible valuation, this feature will 
be scoped out of any further assessment. 
Negligible 
Protected / Priority Species 
Invertebrates 
Nationally Scarce beetle species were identified 
during the field surveys. These species have a 
restricted distribution across the UK and are 
important at the regional level.  
Priority invertebrate (beetle, butterfly and moth) 
species were identified during the field surveys. 
The majority of the Section 7 invertebrate 
species identified are known to be common 
throughout the region and/or UK. The Section 7 
species identified are important at the local level.  
Medium 
Amphibians 
Populations of common toads, palmate newts 
and/or smooth newts were identified during field 
surveys. Common toad is a Section 7 species.  
Amphibians are important at the local level.  
Medium 
Reptiles 
A ‘Good’ breeding population of common lizard 
was identified during the field surveys. It is 
assumed that grass snake is present based on 
the results of the 2014 survey.  
Reptiles are protected under the Wildlife and 
Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) and both 
species recorded during the surveys are Section 
7 species.  
Reptiles are important at the district level.  
Medium 
Breeding Birds  
Surveys identified a locally important breeding 
bird 
assemblage. 
Included 
within 
the 
assemblage are nine Section 7 species, eight 
red-listed 
species 
and 
eight 
amber-listed 
species.  
No Schedule 1 species were identified as 
breeding during the field surveys.  
Medium 
Bats  
Surveys 
identified 
a 
regularly 
occurring High 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-68 
 
Feature 
– 
Site/Habitat/Species 
Evaluation Rationale 
Value 
/ 
Sensitivity 
of Feature 
significant population/number of internationally 
important and protected species. Included within 
the assemblage are six Section 7 species.  
Dormouse  
No dormice were identified survey any of the 
field surveys.  
It is likely dormice are absent from the Project 
Site and will be scoped out of any further 
assessment.  
N/A 
Water Vole 
No current evidence of water vole was identified 
during the field surveys and it is likely that water 
vole are absent from the water vole survey area. 
However, the habitat within the Project Site 
remains suitable for water vole.  Water vole is 
protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 
1981(as amended) and is listed as a Section 7 
species.  
Water vole is important at the site level.  
Low 
Otter 
It 
is 
likely 
that 
otters 
use 
the 
suitable 
watercourses within the otter survey area and 
Project Site boundary for occasional forging, 
commuting, resting and holt creation; although 
no evidence of holts was identified during the 
survey.  
Otters are protected under The Conservation of 
Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (as 
amended) and the Wildlife and Countryside Act 
1981(as amended), and are listed as a Section 7 
species.  
Otter are important at the site level.  
Low 
Brown Hare 
The presence of brown hare was confirmed 
through field surveys. The species is abundant 
throughout 
the 
UK 
although 
is 
declining 
nationally. Brown hare is a Section 7 species.  
Brown hare is important at the site level.  
Low 
Badger  
Current legislation protects badger setts from 
disturbance, damage and/or destruction and the 
badger from persecution but does not confer any 
special conservation status.  
Low 
8.6 
Embedded Mitigation 
8.6.1 
As detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, a number of embedded 
mitigation measures have been identified through the iterative EIA process and 
have been incorporated into the design and construction planning of the Project.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-69 
 
8.6.2 
As these mitigation measures have been embedded into the design, are legal 
requirements or are standard practices that will be implemented, the assessment of 
effects assumes that they are in place.   
8.7 
Assessment of Effects 
8.7.1 
This section presents the findings of the ecological assessment for the construction 
phase, operation and maintenance phase and the decommissioning phase of the 
Project.  
8.7.2 
This section identifies any significant effects that are predicted to occur and Section 
8.8 highlights any additional mitigation and monitoring measures that are proposed 
to reduce or eliminate the identified significant effects. 
 Construction 
a)
8.7.3 
Approximate habitat loss calculations below are provided for each of the Project 
elements. It should be noted that the Electrical Connection will run to the side of the 
Access Road constructed as part of the Power Generation Plant and a small area 
of hard standing.  As such there is no habitat loss associated with the Electrical 
Connection as this is associated with the Access Road and is therefore not 
discussed further.  
i. 
Statutory Designated Sites 
8.7.4 
There is a hydrological link between the Project Site and Carmarthen Bay SAC and 
Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar via the Afon Llan. There are springs, with their 
associated streams and drainage ditches within the Project Site which discharge 
into the Afon Llan. The Afon Llan links with the Afon Lliw and the River Loughor. 
The Afon Llan flows for approximately 12 km before reaching the designated sites.  
8.7.5 
Discharges into to Afon Llan or any other watercourses linking to the Afon Llan will 
be controlled via various measures as outlined in the embedded mitigation.  The 
embedded mitigation covers drainage and following best practice and guidelines, 
controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures 
will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff.  
Discharges will not perceptively increase the flow of the Afon Llan.  
8.7.6 
There are considered to be no effects on statutory designated sites with regards to 
water discharges due to the Site preparation works and embedded mitigation 
measures, in addition to the large dispersal distance within the Afon Llan from the 
Project Site to the designated sites.  
8.7.7 
Transport related emissions are most relevant to sites within 200 m of a major road. 
The Design Manual for Roads and Bridges (DMRB) identifies 200 m as the 
distance beyond which the contribution of traffic emissions to local pollutant 
concentrations is considered to be negligible.  There are no roads within 200 m of 
any statutory site that are forecast to receive anything other than a nominal change 
in vehicle flows as a result of this Project.  There are considered to be no effects 
associated with transport-related emissions generated during construction  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-70 
 
8.7.8 
There are considered to be no additional effects on statutory designated sites in 
relation to the construction of the Project due to the distances between the Project 
and the site and the lack of pathways between the Project and the sites.  
ii. Non-Statutory Designated Sites 
8.7.9 
The embedded mitigation within the CEMP will control movement of people, 
vehicles and machinery on to and around the Project Site during the construction 
phase and to help prevent the degradation and destruction associated with 
increased foot traffic, trampling and/or tracking over of retained non-statutory 
designated site habitat.  
8.7.10 As detailed in Section 8.7 (a)(i), all non-statutory designated sites within 200 m of 
the Project Site boundary are greater than 200 m from a major road. There are 
deemed expected to be no effects associated with transport-related emissions 
generated during construction.  
8.7.11 As defined by the Institute of Air Quality Management (IAQM) guidance, ecological 
receptors should be considered within 50 m of potential dust sources and 50 m of 
the routes used by construction vehicles on the public highway, up to 500 m from 
the Project Site entrance. The following non-statutory designated sites are present 
within 500 m of the Project Site entrance to the north: Rhos Fawr SNCI, Rhyd-Y-
Pandy Valley and Grasslands SNCI, Waun Garn Wen SNCI, Coed Barcud Wildlife 
Trust Reserve, Ancient Woodland 11; and within 500 m of the Project Site entrance 
to the south: Cefn Forest Steam SNCI, Felindre Grasslands SNCI, Lletty-Morfil 
SNCI, Ancient Woodland 6, Ancient Woodland 12. Part of the Power Generation 
Plant construction site falls within the Llety-Morfil SNCI. There are no additional 
non-statutory designated sites within 50 m of the construction routes or potential 
dust sources.  
8.7.12 Indirect impacts on the sites listed above (Table 8-15) from dust generation have 
been considered but vehicle flows on the access route and Access Road will be 
temporary and little dust generation is expected, particularly given the embedded 
mitigation with regards to measures for controlling dust generation which could 
include wetting of the Access Road if needed. Moreover these impacts are 
reversible as soon as construction ceases. There are expected to be no effects 
associated with dust generated during construction requiring additional mitigation.  
8.7.13 The embedded mitigation with regards to following good practice and guidelines, 
controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures 
will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff; and 
the embedded mitigation with regards to measures for controlling dust will help to 
limit the likelihood of increases of nutrient inputs non-statutory designated site 
habitats.  
8.7.14 There are no designated features within the non-statutory designated sites that are 
sensitive to lighting. Construction-related lighting on non-statutory designated sites 
has not been considered any further.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-71 
 
8.7.15 For woodlands with root protection zones within the Project Site boundary the 
embedded mitigation for all retained trees to be protected from any damage in 
accordance with BS5837:2012 Trees in Design, Demolition and Construction, 
Recommendations will help protect trees, scrub, woodland and hedgerows within 
non-statutory designated sites from direct damage and implement root protection 
zones.  
8.7.16 There will be loss of Lletty-Morfil SNCI habitats and Ancient Woodland habitat, as 
detailed below. There will be no loss of habitat within the other non-statutory 
designated sites.  
Lletty-Morfil SNCI 
8.7.17 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will be a permanent 
loss of 0.45 ha (1.30%) of Lletty-Morfil SNCI comprising 0.28 ha of broadleaved 
semi-natural woodland and 0.17 ha of marshy grassland. The SNCI is considered 
to be of medium sensitivity with the extent of habitat loss being a medium 
magnitude, therefore resulting in a Moderate effect. This is considered to be 
significant.  
8.7.18 During construction of the Gas Connection there will be a temporary loss of 103 m2 
(0.03%) of Lletty-Morfil SNCI comprising 51 m2 of semi-improved neutral grassland 
and 52 m2 of improved grassland. Given the same sensitivity as above, the extent 
of habitat loss is considered to medium magnitude, therefore resulting in a 
Moderate effect. This is considered to be significant.  
Middle Llan SNCI, Pant Lasau SNCI and Ancient Woodland 4 
8.7.19 There is a hydrological link between the Project Site and Middle Llan SNCI, Pant 
Lasau SNCI and Ancient Woodland 4 via the Afon Llan. There are springs, with 
their associated streams and drainage ditches within the Project Site which 
discharge into the Afon Llan. The Afon Llan flows through each of these sites.  
8.7.20 Discharges into to Afon Llan or any other watercourses linking to the Afon Llan will 
be controlled via various measures as outlined in the embedded mitigation.  The 
embedded mitigation covers drainage and following best practice and guidelines, 
controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures 
will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff.  
Discharges will not perceptively increase the flow of the Afon Llan.  
8.7.21 There are considered to be no effects on non-statutory designated sites with 
regards to water discharges due to the Site preparation works and embedded 
mitigation measures.  
Ancient Woodland 2 and Ancient Woodland 6 
8.7.22 Ancient Woodland is shown to be present over non-wooded habitats such as open 
grassland, hard standing and buildings.  The habitat loss calculations for Ancient 
Woodland have only considered those areas which are wooded.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-72 
 
8.7.23 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will be a permanent 
loss of 0.09 ha (0.84%) of Ancient Woodland 2 habitat. No habitat loss is 
anticipated for Ancient Woodland 6 with regards to the widening of the Access 
Road. Habitat loss is afforded Medium magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect. 
Loss of Ancient Woodland habitat is considered a significant effect. 
iii. Habitats 
8.7.24 The embedded mitigation for a CEMP will control movement of people, vehicles 
and machinery on to and around the Project Site during the construction phase and 
to help prevent the degradation and destruction associated with increased foot 
traffic, trampling and/or tracking over of retained habitats.  
8.7.25 As detailed in Section 8.7 (a)(i), all habitats within the Project Site boundary are 
greater than 200 m from a major road. There are expected to be no effects 
associated with transport-related emissions generated during construction.  
8.7.26 For reasons given in Section 8.7 (a)(ii), indirect impacts on the sites from dust 
generation have been considered but vehicle flows on the access route and Access 
Road will be temporary and little dust generation is expected, particularly given the 
embedded mitigation with regards to measures for controlling dust generation 
which could include wetting of the Access Road if needed. Moreover these impacts 
are reversible as soon as construction ceases. There are deemed to be no effects 
associated with dust generated during construction requiring additional mitigation.  
8.7.27 The embedded mitigation with regards to following best practice and guidelines, 
controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures 
will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff; and 
the embedded mitigation with regards to measures for controlling dust will help to 
limit the likelihood of increases of nutrient inputs on retained habitats.  
8.7.28 The embedded mitigation for all retained trees to be protected from any damage in 
accordance with BS5837:2012 Trees in Design, Demolition and Construction, 
Recommendations will help protect trees, scrub and hedgerows from direct 
damage and implement root protection zones.  
8.7.29 Where habitats are present within designated sites (for example, Lletty-Morfil 
SNCI), the habitat loss calculations have been undertaken for the designated site 
only so as to not falsely over-represent habitat loss. A breakdown of habitat types to 
be removed has been provided for the designated sites above.  
Broadleaved Woodland – Semi-Natural 
8.7.30 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will be a permanent 
loss of 0.49 ha of broadleaved semi-natural woodland.  Due to the small area and 
isolated nature of the habitats to be removed habitat loss is afforded Low 
magnitude resulting in a Minor effect. Loss of broadleaved semi-natural woodland 
habitat is not considered a significant effect.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-73 
 
8.7.31 There is no requirement to remove broadleaved semi-natural woodland habitat for 
the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection elements of the Project.  
Dense/Continuous Scrub 
8.7.32 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will a permanent loss 
of 0.01 ha of dense/continuous scrub.  
8.7.33 During the construction of the Gas Connection there will be a temporary loss of 
0.02 ha of dense/continuous scrub.  
8.7.34 Due to the small area and isolated nature of the habitats to be removed habitat loss 
is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Negligible effect.  Loss of dense-
continuous scrub is not considered a significant effect.  
Rows of Trees – Broadleaved 
8.7.35 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will be a permanent 
loss of approximately 500 m of the row of trees habitat and a temporary loss of 140 
m for laydown areas.  
8.7.36 During the construction of the Gas Connection there will be a temporary loss of 
approximately 350 m of the row of trees habitat.  
8.7.37 Loss of this habitat type will reduce connectivity across the Project Site and to the 
wider landscape.  Although there is an abundance of this habitat type within the 
Project Site boundary and wider landscape the loss of this habitat may have a long 
term effect on species utilising the habitat.  As such this habitat loss is afforded 
High magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect.  Loss of the row of trees habitat is 
therefore a significant effect.  
Standalone Trees 
8.7.38 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will potentially be a 
loss of up to two standalone trees.  
8.7.39 During the construction of the Gas Connection there will potentially be a loss of up 
to two standalone trees.  
8.7.40 The trees are located on the edge of the Project Site boundary, and as such 
construction works may be able to avoid removing them. There is an abundance of 
this habitat type within the Project Site boundary and wider landscape. Habitat loss 
is afforded Medium magnitude resulting in a Minor effect. Loss of standalone trees 
is not considered a significant effect.  
Semi-Improved Neutral Grassland 
8.7.41 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will be a permanent 
loss of 0.72 ha and a temporary loss of 0.06 ha for laydown areas of semi-improved 
neutral grassland.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-74 
 
8.7.42 During the construction of the Gas Connection there will be a temporary loss of 
1.02 ha of semi-improved neutral grassland.  
8.7.43 There is an abundance of this habitat type within the Project Site boundary and 
wider landscape.  Habitat loss is afforded Medium magnitude resulting in a minor 
effect.  Loss of semi-improved neutral grassland is therefore not a significant effect.  
Marshy Grassland 
8.7.1 
During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will a permanent loss 
of 1.55 ha loss and a temporary loss of 1.98 ha for laydown areas of marshy 
grassland. There is an abundance of this habitat type within the Project Site 
boundary and wider landscape.  Habitat loss is afforded Medium magnitude 
resulting in a Moderate effect.  Loss of marshy grassland is therefore a significant 
effect and will require additional mitigation.  
8.7.2 
During the construction of the Gas Connection there will be a temporary loss of 
0.01 ha of marshy grassland. Due to the small area of the habitat to be removed 
habitat loss is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Negligible effect.  Loss of 
marshy grassland is not considered a significant effect.  
Running Water 
8.7.3 
During the construction of the Power Generation Plant and the Gas Connection 
there is shown to be a loss of the running water habitat; however, cut off drainage 
ditches will be placed around the uphill perimeter of the Project Site. These new 
drainage ditches will be designed to carry the surface runoff around the Project Site 
and downstream back to the original drainage ditches/watercourses; and existing 
field drainage that will cross the Access Road will be culverted or bridged for a 
short length.  Overall there will be no loss of running water habitat and therefore the 
effect is Negligible and no mitigation is required.  
8.7.4 
The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, sediment loads, storage of potential 
pollutants, and precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of 
pollution incidents and/or runoff, and control dust and sediment loads on aquatic 
habitats. 
8.7.5 
Discharges into to Afon Llan or any other watercourses linking to the Afon Llan will 
be controlled via various measures as outlined in the embedded mitigation.  The 
embedded mitigation covers drainage and following best practice and guidelines, 
controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures 
will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff.  
Discharges will not perceptively increase the flow of the Afon Llan and as such 
there will be no scouring of the watercourse.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-75 
 
Standing Water 
8.7.6 
The Power Generation Plant component of the Project will require the removal of 
standing water – Pond 16 and Pond 22. Pond 16 is temporal and Pond 22 holds 
water year round.  
8.7.7 
The construction of the Gas Connection may require the removal of Pond 23. Pond 
23 holds water year round.  Pond 23 is on the edge of the Project Site boundary 
and it may be possible that construction works can avoid the pond.  
8.7.8 
Although there is an abundance of this habitat type within the Project Site boundary 
and wider landscape, the loss of this habitat may have a long term effect on 
species utilising the habitat.  Habitat loss is afforded Medium magnitude resulting in 
a Moderate effect.  Loss of standing water is therefore a significant effect and will 
require additional mitigation.  
8.7.9 
The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, sediment loads, storage of potential 
pollutants, and precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of 
pollution incidents and/or runoff, and control dust and sediment loads on aquatic 
habitats.  
Hedgerows – Species-Poor 
8.7.10 During the construction of the Power Generation Plant there will a permanent loss 
of 140 m of hedgerow habitat.  
8.7.11 During the construction of the Gas Connection there will be a temporary loss of 180 
m of hedgerow habitat.  
8.7.12 Loss of this habitat type will reduce connectivity across the Project Site and to the 
wider landscape.  Although there is an abundance of this habitat type within the 
Project Site boundary and wider landscape the loss of this habitat may have a long 
term effect on species utilising the habitat.  As such this habitat loss is afforded 
Medium magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect.  Loss of the hedgerow habitat is 
therefore a significant effect and will require additional mitigation.  
Broadleaved Woodland – Plantation, Scattered Scrub, Hedgerows – Species-Rich 
and Tall Ruderal 
8.7.13 There will be no removal of broadleaved woodland – plantation, scattered scrub, 
and tall ruderal vegetation. There are considered to be no significant effects 
requiring mitigation.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-76 
 
iv. Species 
Invertebrates 
8.7.14 The Power Generation Plant requires the permanent removal of: 
 
A small proportion (0.45 ha representing 1.3% of total area) of Llety-Morfil 
SNCI, this has the potential to have a limited impact on the Section 7 listed 
butterfly, wall due to loss of habitat;  
 
A proportion (0.49 ha) of broadleaved semi-natural woodland, this has the 
potential to have a limited impact on the two Nationally Scarce beetles through 
partial loss of a habitat;  
 
Running and standing water, this has the potential to have a limited impact on 
common species only; and, 
 
Marshy grassland, semi-improved neutral grassland, scrub, standing water, this 
has the potential to have an impact on the Section 7 species of moth and 
butterfly identified during the field surveys.  
8.7.15 The partial loss of a small proportion of the suitable invertebrate habitat available in 
the wider area is unlikely to have a long term effect on invertebrate species utilising 
the habitat. As such this habitat loss is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Minor 
effect.  Loss of habitat is therefore not a significant effect and will not require 
additional mitigation.  
8.7.16 The Gas Connection requires the temporary removal of:  
 
A small proportion of Llety-Morfil SNCI, this has the potential to have a limited 
impact on the Section 7 listed butterfly, wall due to loss of habitat;  
 
Running and standing water, this has the potential to have a limited impact on 
common species only; and, 
 
Marshy grassland, semi-improved neutral grassland, scrub, standing water, this 
has the potential to have an impact on the Section 7 species of moth and 
butterfly identified during the field surveys.  
8.7.17 Temporarily removed habitats will be reinstated once construction works are 
complete. Temporary habitat loss is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Minor 
effect. Temporary loss of habitat is therefore not a significant effect and will not 
require additional mitigation.  
Amphibians 
8.7.18 The Power Generation Plant requires the permanent removal of standing water, 
scrub, broadleaved semi-natural woodland, species-poor hedgerows and semi-
improved neutral grassland and the temporary removal of semi-improved neutral 
grassland, marshy grassland and rows of trees.  
8.7.19 The Gas Connection requires the temporary removal of standing water (may be 
possible to avoid), scrub, semi-improved neutral grassland, marshy grassland, rows 
of trees and species-poor hedgerows.  
8.7.20 Habitat removal has the potential to impact common amphibians due to the 
permanent and temporary reduction in suitable habitat, including permanent loss of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-77 
 
suitable breeding habitat (standing water).  There is an abundance of suitable 
habitat within the Project Site boundary and the wider landscape.  Loss of habitat is 
afforded Medium magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect.  Loss of habitat is 
therefore a significant effect and will require additional mitigation.  
8.7.21 During construction activities there is the potential for common amphibians to be 
injured or killed through removal of habitats.  Injury of killing of common amphibians 
is afforded Medium magnitude, resulting in a Moderate effect. Injury or killing is 
therefore a significant effect and will require additional mitigation.  
8.7.22 The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, storage of potential pollutants, dust, and 
precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of trampling, 
pollution incidents and/or runoff, and dust on terrestrial and aquatic habitats with 
the potential to support amphibians.  
Reptiles 
8.7.23 The Power Generation Plant requires the permanent removal of standing water, 
scrub, broadleaved semi-natural woodland, species-poor hedgerows and semi-
improved neutral grassland, and the temporary removal of semi-improved neutral 
grassland, marshy grassland and rows of trees.  
8.7.24 The permanent removal of habitats has the potential to impact reptiles due to the 
loss of breeding, sheltering and foraging habitat.  The loss of this habitat may have 
a long term effect on reptile species utilising the habitat.  As such this habitat loss is 
afforded Medium magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect.  Loss of reptile habitat 
is therefore a significant effect and will require additional mitigation.  
8.7.25 The Gas Connection requires the temporary removal of standing water (may be 
possible to avoid), scrub, semi-improved neutral grassland, marshy grassland, rows 
of trees and species-poor hedgerows. Habitats will be reinstated once works are 
complete.  Temporary habitats loss is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Minor 
effect. Temporary loss of habitat is therefore not a significant effect and will not 
require additional mitigation.  
8.7.26 Although the works are temporary in this area, the loss of standing water and 
mature trees must be considered permanent due to the time required for mature 
trees to grow and the change in ground conditions making it unlikely for the pond to 
reform without human intervention.  Permanent habitat loss is afforded Medium 
magnitude resulting in a moderate effect. Habitat loss o is therefore a significant 
effect and will require additional mitigation. During all construction activities there is 
the potential for reptiles to be injured or killed through removal of habitats. Injury of 
killing of reptiles is afforded High magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect; and is 
therefore a significant effect and will require additional mitigation.  
8.7.27 The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, storage of potential pollutants, control of 
dust, and precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-78 
 
trampling, pollution incidents and/or runoff, and dust on habitats with the potential 
to support common reptiles. 
Breeding Birds 
8.7.28 The Power Generation Plant requires the permanent removal of habitat with the 
potential to support breeding birds (trees, woodland, hedgerows and scrub) and the 
temporary removal of habitat with the potential to support breeding birds (trees).  
8.7.29 The Gas Connection requires the temporary removal of habitat with the potential to 
support breeding birds (trees, woodland, hedgerows and scrub).  
8.7.30 The removal of habitat with the potential to support breeding birds will reduce the 
availability of suitable breeding habitat within the Project Site boundary.  However, 
there is an abundance of suitable habitat within the Project Site boundary and wider 
landscape, and as such the loss of suitable breeding habitat within the Project Site 
boundary is unlikely to have a long term significant effect on breeding bird 
populations.  Loss of habitat is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Minor effect; 
and is therefore not a significant effect and will not require additional mitigation.  
8.7.31 During the winter months working within the core hours (08:00 – 18:00) will require 
night time illumination. There will be illumination of the security cabin (24 hour, 
seven days a week facility). Night time illumination of and construction noise in the 
vicinity of features with the potential to supporting nesting birds have the potential 
to cause localised disturbance to nesting birds.  Disturbance will be temporary and 
localised. Disturbance is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Minor effect. As 
such disturbance is not significant and will not require additional mitigation.   
8.7.32 There will be temporary impacts as a result of noise generated during construction 
and this may cause disturbance to breeding birds. Birds have been shown to 
quickly adapt to changes in noise levels.  Noise levels for various type of 
construction equipment typically range from 55 dB to 83dB in the immediate vicinity 
of the equipment.  As such there will be localised disturbance to birds and the 
increases are not going to be significant enough to effect the distribution or activity 
of breeding species. All species recorded during surveys are tolerant of regular 
noise where habitat remains suitable as evidenced by the distribution of breeding 
species recorded alongside busy roads for example. Effects of noise will be 
temporary and localised. Noise is afforded Low magnitude, resulting in a Minor 
effect, and as such noise effects are not significant and will not require additional 
mitigation.  
8.7.33 The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, storage of potential pollutants, and 
precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution 
incidents and/or runoff, and dust on habitats with the potential to support breeding 
birds.  
8.7.34 The embedded mitigation with regards the CEMP and protection of protected 
species during construction would include seeking to avoid vegetation removal 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-79 
 
during breeding bird season (breeding season March – September) wherever 
possible, or an ecologist examining the vegetation for active nests immediately 
prior to removal.  
Bats 
8.7.35 Based on the current known distribution of bat roosts within the Project Site, there 
is no risk of killing or injuring bats during construction.  
8.7.36 There is potential for hibernating bats to be present within a newly identified mine 
shaft and adit.  There is potential for roosting bats to be present within Buildings 6, 
7 and 8. There is potential for hibernating and roosting bats to be disturbed during 
construction works. There is the potential for new roosts to be formed in trees 
previously identified as having potential to support roosting bats but not confirmed 
as roosts during any of the surveys; there is the potential for  new roosts to be 
disturbed, or bats injury or killed during construction. Disturbance, injury or killing is 
afforded High magnitude, resulting in a Major effect, and is considered a significant 
effect requiring further mitigation.  
8.7.37 The Power Generation Plant requires the permanent removal of habitat with the 
potential to support foraging and commuting bats (broadleaved semi-natural 
woodland, hedgerows, mature trees lines semi-improved grassland and marshy 
grassland).  Without mitigation, this will sever the connectivity to habitats either side 
of the Access Road, resulting in fragmentation of retained areas.  This will impact 
on bats using the existing features in the landscape to commute and forage 
between these two areas. There is an abundance of foraging habitat within the 
wider landscape, and as such loss of small amounts of foraging habitat is afforded 
Low magnitude; due to the High value of the receptor (bats) this is considered a 
significant effect (Moderate Adverse) requiring mitigation. Severance of connectivity 
and fragmentation is afforded Medium magnitude resulting in a Moderate effect; 
this is considered a significant effect requiring mitigation.  
8.7.38 The Gas Connection requires the temporary removal of habitat with the potential to 
support foraging and commuting bats (hedgerow, mature trees lines and woodland 
edges). Removal or severance of tree lines and hedgerow will sever the 
connectivity they provide and create fragmentation of retained habitat. This will 
impact on bats using the existing features in the landscape to commute and forage 
between these two areas. Severance of connectivity and fragmentation is afforded 
Medium magnitude, resulting in a Moderate effect; this is considered a significant 
effect requiring mitigation.  
8.7.39 There will be an increase in external lighting at the Project Site during construction. 
There is currently no external lighting within the majority of the Project Site. Many 
species of bat are adverse to light, with different species having different 
tolerances. External lighting can make areas of previous foraging habitat unsuitable 
and fragment commuting routes.  If external lighting for the proposed Project is 
poorly designed there is potential for a light spill onto hedgerows, tree lines, 
woodland edges and vegetated areas which will negatively impact on bats, 
severing commuting routes and impeding access to foraging habitat. Poorly 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-80 
 
designed lighting also has the potential to affect areas outside the Project Site 
boundary. During the winter months working within the core hours (08:00 – 18:00) 
will require night time illumination. There will be illumination of the security cabin 
(24hr, seven days a week facility). Night time illumination of and construction noise 
in the vicinity of features with the potential to supporting bats has the potential to 
cause localised disturbance to commuting or foraging.  The embedded mitigation 
measures with regards to lighting seek to limit impacts on bats. Effects from lighting 
as set out in the lighting plan are afforded Negligible magnitude, resulting in a 
Minor effect. This is not considered a significant effect and does not require 
mitigation.  
8.7.40 The nearest known bat roost to the Project is approximately 90m (300 feet) from 
the Gas Connection element.  Noise dissipates at a rate of 6 dB with the doubling 
of the distance (in feet). Given the loudest equipment used during construction will 
by 90 dB, the noise will be imperceptible at the nearest known bat roost.  Similarly, 
vibration from construction equipment will not be perceptible at this distance.  
Effects from noise and construction equipment vibration are afforded Negligible 
magnitude resulting in a Negligible effect. This is not considered a significant effect 
and does not require mitigation.  
8.7.41 The need for piling, and the type of any piling potentially required is not yet 
confirmed. Where piling, heavy earthworks, vibratory rollers or other significant 
vibration producing operations are proposed in close proximity to any existing 
sensitive receptors, further consideration would be given to potential impacts, once 
the contractor is appointed and the construction methods requirements are 
developed.   
Water Vole 
8.7.42 The Power Generation Plant is close to an area with potential for supporting water 
vole burrows (Watercourse 45). Although no recently occupied burrows were 
identified during the survey, it is possible that prior to construction new burrows are 
created in this area. There is the potential for this to cause disturbance of, harm or 
kill individual water voles during construction within 10 m of Watercourse 45. 
Disturbance, injury or killing are afforded High magnitude, resulting in a Moderate 
effect; and is therefore considered a significant effect and will require additional 
mitigation. 
8.7.43 There will be temporary impacts as a result of noise and vibration generated during 
construction and this may cause disturbance to water voles.  
8.7.44 The predicted noise level from construction equipment is expected to be a 
maximum of 90 dB 10 m from the source. The construction area at the boundary of 
the Power Generation Plant is between approximately 20 m (65 feet) and 80 m 
(260 feet) from the section of Watercourse 45 suitable for supporting water voles.  
In general background noise levels at watercourses are around 45 dB and noise 
dissipates at a rate of 6 dB with the doubling of the distance (in feet).  The noise 
would therefore be around 60 dB at the closest point to Watercourse 45.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-81 
 
8.7.45 Water voles have been shown to quickly adapt to changes in noise levels and the 
occasional change in noise level is unlikely to be enough to deter water voles 
where Watercourse 45 is 20 m from the Power Generation Plant boundary. Further 
afield, as the noise level reduces in line to the background level it is likely that water 
voles will not be deterred from using these areas. Similarly, vibration from 
construction equipment will not be perceptible at this distance.   
8.7.46 Effects of noise will be temporary and localised. Noise and construction equipment 
vibration is afforded Low magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and as such 
noise effects are not significant and will not require additional mitigation.   
8.7.47 The need for piling, and the type of any piling potentially required is not yet 
confirmed. Where piling, heavy earthworks, vibratory rollers or other significant 
vibration producing operations are proposed in close proximity to any existing 
sensitive receptors, further consideration would be given to potential impacts, once 
the contractor is appointed and the construction methods requirements are 
developed.  
8.7.48 The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, storage of potential pollutants, and 
precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution 
incidents and/or runoff, and control dust on aquatic habitats with the potential to 
support water vole.  
8.7.49 The embedded mitigation measures with regards to lighting and noise seeks to limit 
impacts on water vole.  
8.7.50 There are no effects associated with the Electrical Connection or Gas Connection 
on water vole requiring mitigation.  
Otter 
8.7.51 The Power Generation Plant and the Access Road are shown to be near areas 
deemed suitable for supporting otters (Watercourses 9, 11, 12, 41 and 45 and 
Watercourses 27, 28 and 29, respectively). Although no recent activity was 
identified during the survey, it is possible that prior to construction new 
holts/couches are created or activity is present in this area. There is the potential to 
cause disturbance of otters during construction within 100 m of Watercourses 9, 11 
12, 41 and 45 and Watercourses 27, 28 and 29. There is the potential to harm or 
kill individual otters during construction within 10 m of Watercourses 9, 11 12, 41 
and 45 and Watercourses 27, 28 and 29.  Additionally, night time illumination in the 
vicinity of Watercourses 9, 11 12, 41 and 45 and Watercourses 27, 28 and 29 has 
the potential to cause disturbance of otters. Disturbance, injury or killing are 
afforded High magnitude, resulting in a Moderate effect, and as such are 
considered significant effects and will require further mitigation.  
8.7.52 The predicted noise level from construction equipment is expected to be a 
maximum of 90 dB at a distance of 10 m from the source. The construction area at 
the boundary of the Power Generation Plant are between approximately 80 m (260 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-82 
 
feet) and immediately adjacent to Watercourses 9, 11, 12, 41 45 and the Access 
Road is immediately adjacent to Watercourses 27, 28 and 29.  In general 
background noise levels at watercourses are around 45 dB and noise dissipates at 
a rate of 6 dB with the doubling of the distance (in feet).  The noise would therefore 
be 90 dB at the closest point to the watercourses, and would dissipate to being 
imperceptible at about 40 m away.  
8.7.53 The increase in perceptible noise level is likely to be enough to deter otter.  
However, no evidence of otter was found to be using these areas and any effects 
will be temporary and localised. Further afield, as the noise level reduces in line 
with the background level it is likely that otters will not be deterred from using these 
areas.  Otters are known to use noisy areas (for example they are known to cross 
under busy roads) and will habituate to noise levels over time. Similarly, vibration 
from construction equipment will be perceptible only in the vicinity of the 
construction works.    
8.7.54 Effects of noise will be temporary and localised. Noise and construction equipment 
vibration is afforded Low magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and as such 
noise effects are not significant and will not require additional mitigation.   
8.7.55 The need for piling, and the type of any piling potentially required is not yet 
confirmed. Where piling, heavy earthworks, vibratory rollers or other significant 
vibration producing operations are proposed in close proximity to any existing 
sensitive receptors, further consideration would be given to potential impacts, once 
the contractor is appointed and the construction method requirements are 
developed.  
8.7.56 The Gas Connection is near an area suitable for supporting otters (Watercourse 6). 
Although no recent activity was identified during the survey, it is possible that prior 
to construction new holts/couches are created or recent activity is present in this 
area. There is the potential for this to cause disturbance of otters during 
construction within 100 m of Watercourse 6. There is the potential to harm or kill 
individual otters during construction within 10 m of Watercourse 6.  Additionally, 
night time illumination and in the vicinity of Watercourse 6 have the potential to 
disturb otters. Disturbance, injury or killing are afforded High magnitude, resulting in 
a Moderate effect, and as such are considered significant effects and will require 
further mitigation.  
8.7.57 Construction noise and vibration at Watercourse 6 will be imperceptible since it is 
approximately 90 m (290 feet) from the Gas Connection. Noise and construction 
equipment vibration at the Gas Connection is afforded Negligible magnitude, and 
as such noise effects are not significant and will not require additional mitigation.   
8.7.58 The Electrical Connection is near areas suitable for supporting otters 
(Watercourses 27, 28 and 29). Although no recent activity was identified during the 
survey, it is possible that prior to construction new holts/couches are created or 
recent activity is present in this area. There is the potential to cause disturbance of 
otters during construction within 100 m of Watercourses 27, 28 and 29. There is the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-83 
 
potential harm or kill individual otters during construction within 10 m of 
Watercourses 27, 28 and 29.  Disturbance, injury or killing are afforded High 
magnitude, resulting in a Moderate effect, and as such are considered significant 
effects and will require further mitigation.  
8.7.59 The effects of noise and vibration for the Electrical Connection will be the same as 
for the Access Road.  Effects of noise will be temporary and localised. Noise and 
construction equipment vibration is afforded Low magnitude, resulting in a 
Negligible effect, and as such noise effects are not significant and will not require 
additional mitigation.   
8.7.60 The embedded mitigation with regards to the CEMP, following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution and runoff, storage of potential pollutants, and 
precautionary measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution 
incidents and/or runoff, and control dust on aquatic habitats with the potential to 
support otter.  
8.7.61 The embedded mitigation measures with regards to lighting and noise seeks to limit 
impacts on otter.  
Brown Hare 
8.7.62 The removal of grassland, broadleaved woodland and scrub habitats during 
construction of the Power Generation Plant and Gas Connection are unlikely to 
significantly impact local brown hare populations due to the abundance of this 
habitat type within the Project Site boundary and the wider landscape.  Loss of 
habitat is afforded Low magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and as such is 
not considered a significant effect and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.63 All construction work has the potential to disturb, injure or kill breeding, sheltering 
and foraging brown hares. Disturbance, injury or killing are afforded Medium 
magnitude, resulting in a Minor effect, and as such are not considered significant 
effects and will not require further mitigation.  
Badger 
8.7.64 Currently no construction works impede on badger setts. However, it is possible 
that prior to construction new setts are created within 30 m of the construction 
areas. Any works, in particular heavy machinery and ground breaking works, that 
takes place within 30 m of an active badger sett has the potential to cause a 
collapse of a sett and disturb, harm or kill a badger.  Injury or killing are afforded 
High magnitude, resulting in a Moderate effect, and as such are considered 
significant effects and will require further mitigation.  
8.7.65 The excavation of open trenches to facilitate the Gas Connection may obstruct 
badgers from commuting across the Project Site and badgers may become trapped 
in open trenches or excavations. Trapping is afforded High magnitude, resulting in 
a Moderate effect, and is considered a significant effect. As such it will require 
further mitigation.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-84 
 
8.7.66 Night time illumination in the vicinity of badger setts or foraging areas may deter 
badgers from using these areas and as such will be avoided. This is deemed to be 
of Negligible magnitude, resulting in a negligible effect, and not a significant effect 
requiring mitigation.   
8.7.67 There is the potential for disturbance of badger during construction due to 
increased noise.  The predicted noise level from construction equipment is 
expected to be a maximum of 90 dB 10 m from the source. The construction area 
at the boundary of the Power Generation Plant and Gas Connection is between 
approximately 100 m (330 feet) and 200 m (655 feet) from the active badger setts, 
and noise from construction equipment at these setts will be imperceptible.  
8.7.68 The Access Road is immediately adjacent to an active badger sett; however, in this 
area the road is already made and used frequently by various size vehicles and as 
such it is assumed badgers are habituated to loud noise and road vibration at this 
sett.   
8.7.69 Noise and vibration disturbance is afforded Negligible magnitude, resulting in a 
Negligible effect. This is not considered a significant effect and will not require 
further mitigation.  
8.7.70 Badgers using the Project Site for commuting and foraging are likely to be 
disturbed in the immediate vicinity of the construction works at night but are likely to 
habituate to the higher background noise over time.  The temporary increase in 
noise levels is not considered significant enough to deter them from returning. 
Therefore this effect is considered to be of Negligible magnitude, resulting in a 
Negligible effect. This is not considered a significant effect and will not require 
further mitigation.  
8.7.71 The removal of scrub, woodland edge and grassland habitat during construction of 
the Power Generation Plant and Gas Connection will reduce the availability of 
suitable habitat for badgers within the Project Site boundary.  However, there is an 
abundance of suitable habitat within the Site Boundary and wider landscape, and 
as such the loss of suitable habitat within the Site Boundary is unlikely to have a 
long term significant effect on badger populations.  Loss of habitat is afforded Low 
magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect; and is therefore not a significant effect 
and will not require additional mitigation.  
Invasive Species 
8.7.72 The potential for the construction of the Project to cause the spread of invasive 
species will be controlled due to the embedded mitigation to implement measures 
contained in relevant best practice guidance on the control and removal of invasive 
weed species, resulting in a Minor adverse effect; and is therefore not a significant 
effect and will not require additional mitigation.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-85 
 
 Operation 
b)
i. 
Statutory Designated Sites 
8.7.73 The four statutory designated sites were scoped in for assessment of air quality 
effects relating to the Power Generation Plant component of the Project only. A 
Habitat Regulations Assessment Screening exercise was undertaken and report 
written (Ref. 8.5). The results of the air quality modelling (Chapter 6: Air Quality) 
show that the Project’s Process Contribution (PC) of NOx, and consequently the 
PC of nitrogen deposition and nitrogen acidity deposition are very small and so low 
as to be effectively zero (less than 0.01 kg/N/ha/yr and less than 0.01 keqH+/ha/yr, 
respectively). For all sites, the PC does not cause Critical Loads to be exceeded. In 
the case of Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar site where the Critical Load for nitrogen 
and nitrogen acid is already in exceedance, the influence of nitrogen and nitrogen 
acid from the Project is not at a level where it would cause a significant effect. No 
project or plans were considered to have an in-combination effect with the Project 
associated with air quality- nitrogen and nitrogen acid deposition, as a result of NOx 
emissions from the proposed Project. Effects in relation to air quality are 
considered Negligible and as such are not considered significant and will not 
require further mitigation.  
8.7.74 There is a hydrological link between the Project Site and Carmarthen Bay SAC and 
Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar via the Afon Llan.  The Afon Llan flows for 
approximately 12 km before reaching the designated sites.  There are springs, with 
their associated streams and drainage ditches within the Project Site which 
discharge into the Afon Llan. The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will 
require a site foul water drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will 
either drain to a septic tank or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but 
outside any area at risk of flooding.  The processed water would then discharge on-
site or to a nearby watercourse (the Afon Llan, or a watercourse that links to the 
Afon Llan. Discharges will not perceptively increase the flow of the Afon Llan.  
Discharges into to Afon Llan or any other watercourses linking to the Afon Llan will 
be controlled via various measures as outlined in the embedded mitigation. The 
embedded mitigation covers drainage and following best practice and guidelines, 
controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures 
will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff.  In line 
with the drainage strategy the site drainage will include filter drains / swales or oil 
interceptors as necessary to remove pollutants and all necessary treatment will 
take place within the Project Site before it is discharged to the existing 
watercourses. Effects in relation to discharges are considered Negligible and as 
such are not considered significant and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.75 As stated in Chapter 12: Traffic, Transport and Access the Project will employ 15 
permanent staff in shifts, which will likely generate 30 movements per day (two 
movements per staff member). A demineralised water trailer and diesel fuel tanker 
will visit the Project Site periodically.  Maintenance periods will occur annually. 
During these periods, there may be up to 40 additional staff on-site for a period of 
one month. Based on a vehicle occupancy level of 1.6, this will equate to an 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-86 
 
additional 50 movements per day (25 arrivals during the AM peak hour, 25 
departures during the PM peak hour).  Transport related emissions are most 
relevant to sites within 200 m of a major road. The Design Manual for Roads and 
Bridges (DMRB) (Ref. 8.17) identifies 200m as the distance beyond which the 
contribution of traffic emissions to local pollutant concentrations is considered to be 
negligible.  There are no roads within 200 m of any statutory site that are forecast 
to receive anything other than a nominal change in vehicle flows as a result of this 
Project.  There are considered to be no effects associated with transport-related 
emissions generated during operation.  
8.7.76 There are considered to be no effects on statutory designated sites in relation to 
the Gas Connection or Electrical Connection components of the Project due to the 
distances between the Project and the designated sites and the lack of pathways 
between the Project and the designated sites.  
ii. Non-Statutory Designated Sites 
8.7.77 Thirty-four non-statutory designated sites (one Wildlife Trust Reserve, 11 SNCIs 
and 22 Ancient Woodlands) were scoped in for assessment of air quality effects 
relating to the Power Generation Plant component of the Project. The results of the 
air quality modelling (Chapter 6: Air Quality) show that the Project’s PC of NOx, 
and consequently the PC of nitrogen deposition and nitrogen acidity deposition are 
very small (less than 0.01 kg/N/ha/yr and less than 0.01 keqH+/ha/yr, respectively).  
For all sites, the PC does not cause Critical Loads for the most sensitive habitat 
type within the site to be exceeded. In the cases where the Critical Loads for 
nitrogen and nitrogen acidity are already in exceedance, the very slight increase in 
nitrogen or nitrogen acidity from the Project is not at a level where it would cause a 
significant effect. Effects in relation to air quality are considered Negligible and as 
such are not considered significant and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.78 Transport related emissions are most relevant to non-statutory designated sites 
within 200 m of a major road. The DMRB identifies 200 m as the distance beyond 
which the contribution of traffic emissions to local pollutant concentrations is 
considered to be negligible.  All non-statutory designated sites within 200 m of the 
Project Site boundary are further than 200 m from a major road. There are deemed 
to be no effects associated with transport-related emissions generated during 
operation.  
8.7.79 As defined by the IAQM guidance, ecological receptors should be considered within 
50m of potential dust sources and 50 m of the routes used by vehicles on the public 
highway, up to 500 m from the Project Site entrance. The following non-statutory 
designated sites are present within 500 m of the Project Site entrance: Cefn Forest 
Steam SNCI, Felindre Grasslands SNCI, Lletty-Morfil SNCI, Ancient Woodland 6, 
and Ancient Woodland 12.  Lletty-Morfil SNCI will be within 50 m of the operation 
access route.  There are no additional non-statutory designated sites within 50 m of 
the operation access routes or potential dust sources. As stated in Chapter 12: 
Traffic, Transport and Access, the Project will employ 15 permanent staff in 
shifts, which will likely generate 30 movements per day (two movements per staff 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-87 
 
member). A demineralised water trailer and diesel fuel tanker will visit the Project 
Site periodically.  Maintenance periods will occur annually. During these periods, 
there may be up to 40 additional staff on-site for a period of one month. Based on a 
vehicle occupancy level of 1.6, this will equate to an additional 50 movements per 
day (25 arrivals during the AM peak hour, 25 departures during the PM peak hour).  
Increase to traffic during operation is afforded Low magnitude resulting in a Minor 
adverse effect, and is therefore not a significant effect and will not require 
additional mitigation. 
8.7.80 There are no designated features within the non-statutory designated sites that are 
sensitive to lighting.  Furthermore, embedded mitigation will help to limit light spill 
outside of the Power Generation Plant, and the Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection will not be lit. Operation-related lighting on non-statutory designated 
sites has not been considered any further.  
8.7.81 Runoff and pollution during any operational maintenance or repair works will be 
controlled and managed in a similar way as during construction.  There are deemed 
to be no significant effects on statutory designated sites in relation to the Gas 
Connection or Electrical Connection components of the Project.  
Middle Llan SNCI, Pant Lasau SNCI and Ancient Woodland 4 
8.7.82 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will either drain to a septic tank 
or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any area at risk of 
flooding.  The processed water would then discharge on-site or to a nearby 
watercourse (the Afon Llan or a water course connected to the Afon Llan).   
8.7.83 There is a hydrological link between the Project Site and Middle Llan SNCI, Pant 
Lasau SNCI and Ancient Woodland 4 via the Afon Llan. There are springs, with 
their associated streams and drainage ditches within the Project Site which 
discharge into the Afon Llan. The Afon Llan flows through each of these sites.  
8.7.84 The embedded mitigation covers drainage and following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary 
measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or 
runoff.  There are considered to be Negligible effects on Middle Llan SNCI, Pant 
Lasau SNCI and Ancient Woodland 4 as a result of waste water discharges, 
therefore not significant and no additional mitigation will be required. Habitats 
8.7.85 The retained semi-improved neutral grassland, marshy grassland and woodland 
within the Project Site boundary are sensitive to nitrogen deposition and nitrogen 
acidity deposition.  The results of the air quality modelling (Chapter 6: Air Quality) 
show that the Project’s PC of NOx, and consequently the PC of nitrogen deposition 
and nitrogen acidity deposition are very small (less than 0.01 kg/N/ha/yr and less 
than 0.01 keqH+/ha/yr, respectively).  For all habitats, the PC does not cause 
Critical Loads to be exceeded. In the cases where the Critical Loads for nitrogen 
and nitrogen acidity are already in exceedance, the influence of nitrogen or nitrogen 
acidity from the Project is not at a level where it would cause a significant effect. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-88 
 
Effects in relation to air quality are considered Negligible and as such are not 
considered significant and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.86 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will either drain to a septic tank 
or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any area at risk of 
flooding.  The processed water would then discharge on-site or to a nearby 
watercourse.  Discharges will not perceptively increase the flow of the watercourse.  
Discharges will be controlled via various measures as outlined in the embedded 
mitigation.   
8.7.87 The embedded mitigation covers drainage and following best practice and 
guidelines, controlling pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary 
measures will help to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or 
runoff.  In line with the drainage strategy the site drainage will include filter drains / 
swales or oil interceptors as necessary to remove pollutants and all necessary 
treatment will take place on the site before it is discharged to the existing 
watercourses.  Effects in relation to discharges are considered Negligible and as 
such are not considered significant and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.88 It is assumed that the potential effects on habitats for any partial underground cable 
or pipeline replacement or repairs in relation to the Gas Connection or Electrical 
Connection components of the Project will be the same or similar to those identified 
during the construction phase of the Project.  
8.7.89 There will be no additional effects on habitats during the operational phase of the 
Project.  
iii. Protected or Priority Species 
8.7.90 It is assumed that the potential effects on species for any partial underground cable 
or pipeline replacement or repairs in relation to the Gas Connection or Electrical 
Connection components of the Project will be the same or similar to those identified 
during the construction phase of the Project.  
8.7.91 Operational external lighting has been designed to reduce trespass and configured 
to avoid glare and spillage, and otherwise in accordance with the Outline Lighting 
Strategy (to be provided at DCO Application) undertaken in accordance with the 
Institution of Lighting Professionals guidelines. The strategy will seek to limit effects 
of lighting on habitats (and therefore species) adjacent to the Project Site. The 
administration buildings within the Power Generation Plant will be lit at all times as 
well the main access gate and footpaths. All other areas of the Power Generation 
Plant will generally not be lit during the night as lights will be operated by infrared 
motion detectors. The sensitivity of the infrared motion detectors will be set so as 
not to be activated by the movement of large mammals such as badgers and otters. 
The lighting strategy will ensure that all lighting columns will be fitted with cowls to 
reduce light spill and will be directed away from boundary features. The Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection will not be lit.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-89 
 
Invertebrates 
8.7.92 Invertebrate species such as moths are very sensitive to lighting and light levels as 
low as 0.1 lux has been shown to affect invertebrate activity (Ref. 8.18). The 
embedded mitigation will help to limit light spill outside of the Power Generation 
Plant. However, some types of lights have spectrums and wavelengths that are 
attractive to invertebrates. Effects in relation to lighting are deemed to be of Low 
magnitude, resulting in a Minor effect, and as such are not considered a significant 
and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.93 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will either drain to a septic tank 
or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any area at risk of 
flooding. The processed water would then discharge on-site or to a nearby 
watercourse. There are deemed to be no effects on aquatic invertebrates as a 
result of waste water discharges.  
Amphibians 
8.7.94 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will either drain to a septic tank 
or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any area at risk of 
flooding. The processed water would then discharge on-site or to a nearby 
watercourse. There are deemed to be no effects on amphibians as a result of 
waste water discharges.  
Breeding Birds 
8.7.95 Lighting can cause disruptions to bird behaviour. However, the embedded 
mitigation will limit light spill outside of the Project Site boundary and this will help 
limit the effects on breeding birds.  There will be no significant operational effects 
on breeding birds as a result of lighting. 
8.7.96 Operational noise can cause disturbance to birds although the assemblage of 
species recorded are tolerant of changes in noise and as such will become 
habituated to noise levels nearby. There will be no significant operational effects on 
breeding birds as a result of noise. 
Reptiles 
8.7.97 Reptiles are not considered to be sensitive to disturbance during operation in the 
form of noise or lighting.  There will be no significant operational effects on reptiles 
as a result of noise or lighting.  
8.7.98 Reptiles are sensitive to vibration. Vibration from the operation of the Power 
Generation Plant is unlikely to be perceivable to reptiles and therefore Negligible 
effects are anticipated, and as such are not considered significant and will not 
require further mitigation.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-90 
 
8.7.99 There is a risk of direct mortality from the use of the Access Road by operational 
traffic.  However, this is considered to be of Low magnitude given the infrequent 
traffic envisaged, the numbers of reptiles likely to be moving across the Access 
Road and the low speed limits in place. This results in a Minor effect, and as such 
is not considered significant and will not require further mitigation.  
Bats 
8.7.100 There will be an increase in external lighting at the Power Generation Plant during 
operation. There is currently no external lighting within the majority of the Project 
Site. Many species of bat are adverse to light, with different species having different 
tolerances.  External lighting can make areas of previous foraging habitat 
unsuitable and fragment commuting routes.  If external lighting for the Power 
Generation Plant is poorly designed there is potential for a light spill onto 
hedgerows, tree lines, woodland edges and vegetated areas which will negatively 
impact on bats, severing commuting routes and impeding access to foraging 
habitat.  Poorly designed lighting also has the potential to affect areas outside the 
Project Site boundary.  The embedded mitigation measures with regards to lighting 
will limit impacts on surrounding habitats and bats. As such the impact from lighting 
is afforded Negligible magnitude resulting in a Minor effect; this is not considered a 
significant effect and will not require additional mitigation.  
8.7.101 The nearest known bat roost to the Project is approximately 330m (1000 feet) from 
the Power Generation Plant boundary.  Noise dissipates at a rate of 6 dB with the 
doubling of the distance (in feet). Given the noise during operation will be 55 dB at 
the Power Generation Plant boundary fence, the noise will be imperceptible at the 
nearest known bat roost.  Similarly, vibration from operation will not be perceptible 
at this distance.  Effects from noise and vibration are afforded Negligible 
magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect. This is not considered a significant 
effect and does not require mitigation.  
8.7.102 The need for piling, and the type of any piling potentially required is not yet 
confirmed. Where piling, heavy earthworks, vibratory rollers or other significant 
vibration producing operations are proposed in close proximity to any existing 
sensitive receptors, further consideration would be given to potential impacts, once 
the contractor is appointed and the construction methods requirements are 
developed.   
Badger 
8.7.103 The new Access Road has the potential to result in road traffic mortality of badgers.  
The Project will employ 15 permanent staff in shifts, which will likely generate 30 
movements per day (two movements per staff member). A demineralised water 
trailer and diesel fuel tanker will visit the Project Site periodically.  Regular night 
time access (when badgers are more active) is likely to comprise approximately 
fifteen one way journeys.  Maintenance periods will occur annually. During these 
periods, there may be up to 40 additional staff on-site for a period of one month. 
Based on a vehicle occupancy level of 1.6, this will equate to an additional 50 
movements per day (25 arrivals during the AM peak hour, 25 departures during the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-91 
 
PM peak hour).  A 20 mph speed limit will be in place along the Access Road.  This 
will reduce the likelihood of badger mortality incidents.  This impact is considered to 
be of Low magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and is therefore not 
significant and does not require additional mitigation.  
8.7.104 There is the potential to cause disturbance of badger during operation due to 
increased lighting.  The embedded mitigation will help to limit light spill outside of 
the Power Generation Plant. Effects in relation to lighting are deemed to be of Low 
magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and as such are not considered a 
significant and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.105 Any new fencing has the potential to inhibit commuting routes across the Project 
Site.  This impact is considered to be of Low magnitude and therefore not 
significant.  However, where possible, measures should be put in place to allow the 
continued movement of badgers across the Project Site.  
8.7.106 There is the potential for disturbance of badger during operation due to increased 
noise.  The background noise as identified in Chapter 7: Noise and Vibration 
within the Project Site ranges from between 17dB (night time noise in an isolated 
location) and 50dB (day time noise near a road/active farm).  The predicted 
operational noise level from plant is expected to be an average of 50 dB and a 
maximum of 55 dB at the boundary of the Power Generation Plant.  The noise level 
at the nearest setts (an active annex and active main sett) is expected to be 
between 40 dB and 50 dB (similar to the noise of a babbling brook or light traffic).  It 
is considered that badgers will habituate to the higher background noise since the 
area near to the setts will already be subject to sudden loud noises such as 
agricultural machinery passing nearby and farm workers.  Badgers are known to 
tolerate high levels of noise, setts have been found next to motorways, major roads 
and railway lines (Ref. 8.20). Noise levels at the other setts are expected to be 
between 32 dB and 22 dB.  This is unlikely to be enough to deter badgers from 
using these setts.  Disturbance at the active annex and active main sett is afforded 
Low magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect. This is not considered a significant 
effect and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.107 Badgers using the Project Site for commuting and foraging are likely to be 
disturbed in the immediate vicinity of the Power Generation Plant during the start-
up of the facility only but are likely to habituate to the higher background noise over 
time and at increased distances from the Power Generation Plant. The increase in 
noise levels is not considered significant enough to deter them from returning. 
Therefore this effect is considered to be of Low magnitude, resulting in a 
Negligible effect. This is not considered a significant effect and will not require 
further mitigation.  
8.7.108 There are no additional effects associated with the Electrical Connection or Gas 
Connection on otters requiring mitigation.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-92 
 
Water Vole 
8.7.109 The Power Generation Plant is close to an area suitable for supporting water vole 
burrows (Watercourse 45). Although no recently occupied burrows were identified 
during the survey, it is possible that prior to construction new burrows are created in 
this area.  
8.7.110 There is the potential for disturbance of water voles during operation due to 
increased noise.  The predicted operational noise level from plant is expected to be 
an average of 50 dB and a maximum of 55 dB at the boundary of the Power 
Generation Plant, which is between approximately 20 m and 80 m from the section 
of Watercourse 45 suitable for supporting water voles.  In general background 
noise levels at watercourses are around 45 dB.  The change in noise level is 
unlikely to be enough to deter water voles where Watercourse 45 is 20 m from the 
Power Generation Plant boundary. Further afield, as the noise level reduces in line 
to the background level it is likely that water voles will not be deterred from using 
these areas.  Given the extremely localised impact, noise is afforded Low 
magnitude and as such noise effects are not significant and will not require 
additional mitigation.  
8.7.111 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will either drain to a septic tank 
or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any area at risk of 
flooding.  The processed water would then discharge on-site or to a nearby 
watercourse.  There are considered to be Negligible effects on water vole as a 
result of waste water discharges, therefore not significant and no additional 
mitigation will be required.  
8.7.112 There are no effects associated with the Electrical Connection or Gas Connection 
on water vole requiring mitigation.  
Otter 
8.7.113 The new Access Road has the potential to result in road traffic mortality of otters.  
The Project will employ 15 permanent staff in shifts, which will likely generate 30 
movements per day (two movements per staff member). A demineralised water 
trailer and diesel fuel tanker will visit the Project Site periodically.  Regular night 
time access (when otters are more active) is  likely to comprise approximately 
fifteen one way journeys.  Maintenance periods will occur annually. During these 
periods, there may be up to 40 additional staff on-site for a period of one month. 
Based on a vehicle occupancy level of 1.6, this will equate to an additional 50 
movements per day (25 arrivals during the AM peak hour, 25 departures during the 
PM peak hour). A 20 mph speed limit will be in place along the Access Road.  This 
will reduce the likelihood of otter mortality incidents.  This impact is considered to 
be of Negligible magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and therefore not 
significant and does not require additional mitigation.  
8.7.114 There is the potential for disturbance of otter during operation due to increased 
lighting.  The embedded mitigation will help to limit light spill outside of the Power 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-93 
 
Generation Plant. Effects in relation to lighting are considered to be of Low 
magnitude, resulting in a Negligible effect, and as such are not considered a 
significant and will not require further mitigation.  
8.7.115 Any new fencing has the potential to inhibit commuting routes across the Project 
Site. This impact is considered to be of Low magnitude and therefore not 
significant.  However, where possible, measures should be put in place to allow the 
continued movement of otters across the Project Site. 
8.7.116 There is the potential for disturbance of otter during operation due to increased 
noise.  The predicted operational noise level from plant is expected to be an 
average of 50 dB and a maximum of 55 dB at the boundary of the Power 
Generation Plant, which is between 80 m and immediately adjacent to water 
courses suitable for supporting otter.  In general, background noise levels at 
watercourses are around 45 dB.  The change in noise level is unlikely to be enough 
to deter otter in these areas.  Otters have been shown to use areas with high levels 
of background noise such as under roads, in industrial buildings and close to 
quarries (Ref. 8.22). Further afield, as the noise level reduces in line to the 
background level it is likely that otters will not be deterred from using these areas.  
As otters generally use the site for commuting and foraging the increase in noise 
levels is not considered significant enough to deter them from returning as they are 
tolerant of relatively high levels of disturbance (Ref. 8.22) and will resume their 
previous activity. It is considered that otters will habituate to the higher background 
noise. Therefore this effect is considered to be of Negligible magnitude, resulting in 
a Negligible effect and therefore not significant and does not require additional 
mitigation.  
8.7.117 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system.  The foul water drainage system will either drain to a septic tank 
or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any area at risk of 
flooding. The processed water would then discharge on-site or to a nearby 
watercourse.  There are considered to be no effects on otter as a result of waste 
water discharges.  
8.7.118 There are no additional effects associated with the Electrical Connection or Gas 
Connection on otters requiring mitigation.  
 Decommissioning 
c)
8.7.119 The detailed decommissioning methodology cannot be finalised until immediately 
prior to decommissioning, but would be in line with relevant legislation and policy at 
that time.  
8.7.120 The working assumption has been made for the purposes of this assessment that 
after 25 years, the Generating Equipment would be removed and the Generating 
Equipment Site re-instated to a similar condition as before construction. Any 
decommissioning phase would be likely to be of a similar duration to construction 
i.e. 22 months. However, it should be noted that it is common for power stations to 
run for a much longer period than 25 years.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-94 
 
8.7.121 A working assumption has been used that the Electrical Connection and Gas 
Connection would be decommissioned after 25 years. Elements of the Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection may be left in situ as this is likely to cause 
less environmental effects than removal. This would be the case for the Pipeline, 
for example.  
8.8 
Mitigation and Monitoring  
8.8.1 
Additional mitigation measures have been proposed where a significant effect is 
predicted to occur.  Embedded mitigation measures, which have been incorporated 
within the design of the Project or are standard practice measures that have been 
committed to are summarised in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description.   
8.8.2 
This section describes the proposed additional mitigation measures for the 
ecological assessment.  Where other additional mitigation is required to reduce or 
eliminate a significant effect, this is referred to as additional mitigation.  Additional 
mitigation measures have not been incorporated into the design of the Project and 
are therefore described in this section.  
8.8.3 
This section also describes any required monitoring regimes, including monitoring 
of specific receptors/resources, or monitoring the effectiveness of a mitigation 
measure.  The requirements, scope, frequency and duration of a given monitoring 
regime are set out, as far as possible, in this section. 
a) Mitigation 
i. 
During Construction 
8.8.4 
Throughout the construction mitigation section areas of replacement habitats are 
referred to. The locations and areas for which are to be decided once the outline 
landscape plan is prepared and the locations of utilities confirmed.  Indicative areas 
based on the previous layout of the landscaping plans are subject to change. The 
overall totals are as follows and that the same areas are referred to more than 
once:  
 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
 
5.04 ha of grassland (acid grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
 
800 m of hedgerow; and, 
 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Lletty-Morfil SNCI 
8.8.5 
Mitigation for the loss of SNCI habitat (broadleaved semi-natural woodland, 
dense/continuous scrub and marshy grassland) will include the provision of 
replacement habitats. An outline landscaping mitigating strategy is presented in 
Appendix Figure 11.10.   
8.8.6 
Indicative areas, based on the plan are as follows, although these figures are 
subject to change: 
 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-95 
 
 
5.04 ha of grassland (acid grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
 
800 m of hedgerow; and, 
 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Ancient Woodland 
8.8.7 
Mitigation for the loss of Ancient Woodland habitat (broadleaved semi-natural 
woodland) will include the provision of replacement habitat, the location and area 
for which is to be decided once the Outline Landscaping  Plan is prepared and the 
locations of utilities confirmed.   
8.8.8 
An indicative area, based on the previous layout of the landscaping plans of 0.91 
ha of woodland/scrub habitat has been proposed, although this figure is subject to 
change.  
Row of Trees – Broadleaved and Hedgerows – Species-Poor 
8.8.9 
Loss of rows of trees and hedgerows utilised by wildlife such as commuting and 
foraging bats, and commuting badgers will be mitigated for through the introduction 
of linear habitat with similar properties such as hedgerows. This is still under 
consideration and dialogue is ongoing with National Grid regarding the shared 
access route and any widening which may be required.  
8.8.10 Mitigation measures will be confirmed in the DCO Application but could include that 
habitats temporarily removed will be reinstated and that mature trees removed may 
be replaced by standards of the same species or transplanted to a suitable location 
elsewhere within the Project Site boundary.  
Marshy Grassland 
8.8.11 Temporarily removed habitats will be reinstated.  Mitigation for the loss of marshy 
grassland habitat will include the provision of replacement habitat, the locations and 
areas for which are to be decided once the outline landscape plan is prepared and 
the locations of utilities confirmed.  After which, this part of the assessment will be 
updated for final submission. The indicative area, based on the previous layout of 
the landscaping plans, is 5.04 ha of grassland (acid grassland/marshy grassland 
mosaic); however, this area is subject to change.  
Standing Water 
8.8.12 Mitigation for the loss of standing water habitat will include the provision of 
replacement habitat, the locations and areas for which are to be decided once the 
outline landscape plan is prepared and the locations of utilities confirmed.  After 
which, this part of the assessment will be updated for final submission. 
Provisionally, it has been suggested that two wildlife ponds will be provided as 
based on the previous layout of the landscaping plans.  
Amphibians 
8.8.13 Recommendations for reptiles below will help to limit the injury or killing of 
amphibians.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-96 
 
Reptiles 
8.8.14 Mitigation for the loss of habitat suitable for supporting reptiles (dense/continuous 
scrub and grassland) will include the provision of replacement habitats based on 
the previous layout of the landscaping plans, the locations and areas for which are 
to be decided once further investigation on the Water Main and other utilities are 
confirmed. It is the intention to continue the consultation of likely areas within the 
Project Site boundary and confirm the required mitigation with the DCO Application. 
It is likely that any ecological mitigation will be incorporated into the Outline 
Landscape and Reinstatement Plan to be submitted with the DCO Application.  
8.8.15 Indicative areas, based on the previous layout of the landscaping plans are as 
follows, although these figures are subject to change: 
 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
 
5.04 ha of grassland (acid grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
 
800 m of hedgerow; and, 
 
Two wildlife ponds. 
8.8.16 Based on the positive result from the surveys reptile translocation will be required in 
areas of suitable habitat with the Project Site boundary that are to be permanently 
or temporarily lost during construction.  
8.8.17 The trapping and translocation programme will be designed following the guidance 
set out in Herpetofauna Groups of Britain and Ireland 1998 publication (Ref. 8.23).  
8.8.18 Due to the ‘Good’ population of common lizard and the presence of low numbers of 
grass snakes within the survey area it is recommended that a trapping and 
translocation programme is undertaken to help protect any reptiles from being 
injured or killed. The actions involved in the proposed trapping and translocation 
are outlined below: 
 
Any construction areas suitable or known to support reptiles, including any 
routes in and out, areas for site compounds, offices or storage of 
materials/waste, will be fenced off using suitable fencing (drift or semi-
permanent) to limit individuals attempting to enter the site from the adjacent 
land.  
 
No construction activities, including pedestrian access will be allowed outside 
of the fencing in areas of habitat suitable for supporting reptiles.  
 
A number of refugia (at a density of 50/ha) will be placed within the fenced area 
to attract reptiles.  
 
Each day, up to twice a day for a minimum of 60 days an ecologist will check 
the refugia for the presence of reptiles.  
 
Any reptiles or amphibians found will be captured for relocation to a pre-
determined receptor site (see below).  
 
After 60 days the trapping can cease once there have been five consecutive 
days where no reptiles have been found.  
 
After the fenced area has been cleared of reptiles and prior to soil stripping the 
vegetation can undergo a process habitat management and hand searches for 
reptiles  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-97 
 
 
Supervision of the soil strip during construction work by a suitably qualified 
ecologist will be required to help protect injury or killing of reptiles.  
 
Any litter or rubble piles will be removed by hand under the supervision of an 
ecologist to avoid injuring or killing any reptiles. If the material is too heavy to 
be removed by hand it can be done so using a mini excavator carefully and 
slowly removing the material, under the supervision of an ecologist.  
8.8.19 The receptor site for the trapped reptiles can be within the Project Site boundary, or 
alternatively a receptor site can be chosen off-site (within the same county or 
administrative area). However, there is a deficit of suitable receptor sites within the 
county and adjacent counties, and the costs associated with sorting and 
transporting trapped reptiles may be prohibitive.  
8.8.20 For either option the receptor site will: 
 
Have habitat suitable for supporting reptiles (can be made suitable by 
undertaking habitat management works); 
 
Not currently support a population of the species of common lizard or support 
only small numbers of the species but being capable of supporting more given 
suitable habitat management works; 
 
Not be subject to planning or other threats in the foreseeable future;  
 
Be subject to a written, agreed and funded pre- and post-translocation 
management agreement and monitoring programme.  
8.8.21 Any amphibians captured during the reptile trapping programme will be moved to a 
suitable location within the Project Site boundary.  
8.8.22 To reduce the risk of individual reptiles being injured or killed, all works will proceed 
under a Method Statement agreed with the Local Biodiversity Officer/Country 
Ecologist prior to works commencing.  
8.8.23 The risk of reptiles and the mitigation measures will be included in the site induction 
package and prior to any site clearance and construction tasks.  
8.8.24 Full details will be provided in the Ecological Management Plan to be submitted 
with the DCO Application.  
Breeding Birds 
8.8.25 Habitat creation measures relating to the loss of the SNCI, broadleaved woodland, 
marshy grassland, hedgerows and lines of trees will provide additional areas for 
breeding birds post construction.  Embedded landscape planting will also provide 
additional habitat for the species assemblage recorded. 
Bats 
8.8.26 To allow the most appropriate and effective mitigation measures to be determined 
and will be included in a subsequent CEMP or Ecological Mitigation Plan, the 
following surveys will be undertaken:  
 
Building assessments and further bat surveys on Buildings 6, 7 and 8 within the 
Abergelli Farm between May and September;  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-98 
 
 
Further to determining the suitability of the mine shaft, static bat detectors may 
be placed as near to the estimated locations of the mine shaft and adit as is 
safe to do so during December 2017, and January and February 2018. This will 
be undertaken with the aim of any bat activity being recorded in these areas, 
suggesting a nearby hibernation-site but only if the mine workings are declared 
safe; and;  
 
Pre-construction checks on trees scheduled for removal for their current bat 
roost potential with consideration of the seasonal survey timings (May – 
September).  
8.8.27 Based on the current Project design a European Protected Species Licence (EPSL) 
is not a requirement. However, should the scope of the Project change and/or if 
further bat roosts are identified a EPSL may be required.  
8.8.28 Mitigation for the loss of habitat suitable or supporting bats will include the provision 
of replacement habitats. Indicative areas, based on the previous layout of the 
landscaping plans are as follows, although these figures are subject to change: 
 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
 
5.04 ha of grassland (acid grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
 
800m of hedgerow; and, 
 
Two wildlife ponds. 
8.8.29 Maintain connectivity of foraging and commuting habitats by the retention of trees 
and hedgerows wherever possible and utilising 'brown hedgerows' of brash, to 
maintain connectivity during construction.  For linear features identified as key 
forging or commuting habitat, where possible the Gas Connection should be 
installed using drilling to retain feature and connectivity across the Project Site.  
Embedded mitigation includes the provision of replacement habitats that will benefit 
foraging and commuting bats.  
8.8.30 Night time working with its associated need for additional lighting should be avoided 
as far as possible within areas near to known roosts.  There should be no night 
time illumination of the hedgerows, woodland or mature tree lines.  
Water Vole and Otter 
8.8.31 A pre-construction check for water vole burrows, otter holts/couches and activity of 
both species will be undertaken where construction is present within 100 m of 
watercourses as identified as suitable for supporting the species during the 2017 
field surveys.  The check should be undertaken the year before works are due to 
commence and if the area declared clear, habitat management undertaken to help 
reduce the quality of the habitats for burrow and holt/couch creation for the period 
leading up to and for the duration of construction in that area. Additional mitigation 
may be required as a result of the survey.  
Badger 
8.8.32 A pre-construction check for badger setts and activity will be undertaken where 
construction works are within 30 m of suitable habitats for badger sett creation.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-99 
 
8.8.33 Works likely to damage or destroy a badger sett will require a license to close the 
sett prior to works commencing.  The terms of the license may stipulate the 
requirement for compensatory setts to be created should any main setts be 
destroyed and/or temporarily closed.  
8.8.34 Excavations, if left unfilled overnight, should be covered to avoid badgers and other 
animals becoming trapped. Sloping escape ramps for badgers should be created 
by edge profiling trenches/excavations and/or excavations should be fitted with a 
scaffolding board ramp to allow any trapped animals to exit. Crossing places will be 
provided across open excavations for the duration of the works on the sections 
where known badger paths have been identified. Open pipework greater than 150 
mm diameter that is left over night will be made secure by either filling in the end of 
the pipe or covering the end with a solid timber panel or similar.  
8.8.35 Night time working with its associated need for additional lighting should be avoided 
as far as possible within areas near to setts and areas of known activity to reduce 
disturbance to badger when they are out of their setts and foraging.  There should 
be no night time illumination of the hedgerows, woodland or setts.  
8.8.36 The introduction of new woodland, scrub, species-rich grassland and hedgerows 
will increase opportunities for resting, breeding and foraging badger.  
Invasive Species 
8.8.37 It is recommend that an invasive species management plan is produced to control 
and eradicate the invasive species within the Project Site boundary.  An updated 
invasive species survey should be undertaken to accurately assess invasive 
species and extents within the Project Site boundary prior to the production of the 
final management plan and/or implementation of control measures.  
8.8.38 Details of control and eradication will be provided in the Ecological Management 
Plan. 
ii. During Operation 
Protected Species 
8.8.39 The mitigation for partial underground cable or pipework replacement or repairs will 
follow best practice and any intrusive works will only commence after consultation 
with an ecologist to assess whether there are any impacts associated with the 
work.  
8.8.40 Management of newly created habitats or compensatory features will be detailed in 
the Ecological Management Plan and will be designed to minimise disturbance or 
adverse effects on protected and/or priority species, such as avoiding vegetation 
management during nesting bird season, and cutting grass and scrub within the 
reptile receptor area to a height of no less than 150 mm.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8-100 
 
Bats 
8.8.41 The lighting should utilise warm light luminaire such as yellow or amber LED.  
White LED lamps have a broad spectrum of light with whilst yellow and amber LED 
lamps each have a specific, narrower spectrum and have peak wavelengths 
between 590 and 660 nm, which is less attractive to invertebrates.  This in turn will 
reduce the number of bats that will be attracted to feed and be open to predation 
through increased visibility.  
Badger and Otter 
8.8.42 Any new fencing along the Access Road will continue to allow the movement of 
badger across the Project Site through the inclusion of badger/otter gates or large 
gaps between the bottom of the fence and the ground.  Speed limits on the Access 
Road will be enforced to help reduce the likelihood of any traffic mortalities or 
collisions.  
iii. During Decommissioning  
8.8.43 The detailed decommissioning methodology cannot be finalised until immediately 
prior to decommissioning, works associated with decommissioning would be 
subject to a separate assessment (likely EcIA) and planning application at that 
time, and as such appropriate mitigation would be decided upon during that 
process.  
b) Monitoring 
8.8.44 Monitoring will be undertaken on any newly created or relocated habitats for at 
least five years from establishment.  
8.8.45 Monitoring will be undertaken for any species with newly created compensatory 
habitats for at least five years following establishment; for example, artificial badger 
setts, the reptile receptor site and bat boxes to assess their effectiveness and 
inform any ongoing management.  
8.9 
Residual Effects 
8.9.1 
The following tables (Table 8-17 and Table 8-17) present a summary of the 
ecological impact assessment. They identify the receptor/s likely to be impacted, 
the level of effect and, where the effect is deemed to be significant, the tables 
include the mitigation proposed and the resulting residual effect.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-101 
 
Table 8-17: Ecology summary of effects arising during construction phase 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Power Generation Plant  
Llety-Morfil SNCI 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
loss of 0.45 ha 
(1.30%), 
comprising 0.28 ha 
of 
broadleaved 
semi-natural 
woodland and 0.17 
ha 
of 
marshy 
grassland.  
Moderate adverse 
Provision of replacement habitats. 
Indicative areas, based on the previous 
layout of the landscaping plans are as 
follows, although these figures are 
subject to change: 
 0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
 5.04 
ha 
of 
grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy 
grassland 
mosaic); 
 800 m of hedgerow; and, 
 Two wildlife ponds. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Broadleaved 
Woodland – Semi-
Natural 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
loss of 0.49 ha.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Dense/Continuous 
Scrub 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
loss of 0.01 ha. 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Rows of Trees – 
Broadleaved 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
loss 
of 
approximately 500 
m and a temporary 
loss of 140 m for 
laydown areas.  
Moderate adverse 
Replacement of features through the 
introduction of linear habitat with 
similar properties such as hedgerows.  
Mature trees will be replaced by 
standards of the same species or 
transplanted to a suitable location 
elsewhere within the Project Site 
boundary.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-102 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Standalone Trees 
Loss of up to two 
trees.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Semi-Improved 
Neutral Grassland 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
loss of 0.72 ha and 
a temporary loss of 
0.06 ha for laydown 
areas 
of 
semi-
improved 
neutral 
grassland. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Marshy Grassland Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
loss of 1.55 ha loss 
and a temporary 
loss of 1.98 ha for 
laydown areas of 
marshy grassland.  
Moderate adverse 
Temporarily removed habitats will be 
reinstated. Mitigation for the loss of 
marshy grassland habitat will include 
the provision of replacement habitat. 
The indicative area, based on the 
previous layout, is 5.04 ha of grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy 
grassland 
mosaic). 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Running Water 
Re-routing 
and 
culverting of ditches 
and streams.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Standing Water 
Habitat 
loss 
– 
permanent removal 
of Ponds 16 and 
22. 
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of standing water 
habitat will include the provision of 
replacement habitat. Provisionally, it 
has been suggested that two wildlife 
ponds will be provided.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Hedgerows 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a permanent 
Moderate adverse 
Replacement of features through the 
introduction of linear habitat with 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-103 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
loss of 140 m of 
species-poor 
hedgerow.  
similar properties such as hedgerows.  
Mature trees will be replaced by 
standards of the same species or 
transplanted to a suitable location 
elsewhere within the Project Site 
boundary. 
Invertebrates 
Loss of habitat - 
permanent removal 
of habitat suitable 
for 
supporting 
a 
Section 
7 
listed 
butterfly, wall, two 
Nationally 
Scarce 
beetles, 
common 
species, 
and 
Section 7 species 
of 
moth 
and 
butterfly. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Amphibians 
Permanent 
partial 
loss 
of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including 
two 
ponds, 
broadleaved semi-
natural 
woodland 
and 
semi-natural 
neutral grassland.  
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of habitat 
suitable or supporting amphibians will 
include the provision of replacement 
habitats. Indicative areas, based on the 
previous layout of the landscaping 
plans are as follows, although these 
figures are subject to change: 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
5.04 
ha 
of 
grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
800m of hedgerow; and, 
Minor adverse 
 
Not 
Significant 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-104 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Potential for injuring 
or 
killing 
of 
amphibians during 
habitat 
removal, 
trampling 
and 
vehicular 
movements.  
Moderate adverse 
The mitigation in place for reptiles will 
help to limit the injury or killing of 
amphibians.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Reptiles 
Permanent 
partial 
loss 
of 
suitable 
breeding, 
forging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including 
three 
ponds, 
broadleaved semi-
natural 
woodland 
and 
semi-natural 
neutral grassland. 
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of habitat 
suitable or supporting reptiles will 
include the provision of replacement 
habitats. Indicative areas, based on the 
previous layout of the landscaping 
plans are as follows, although these 
figures are subject to change: 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
5.04 
ha 
of 
grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
800m of hedgerow; and, 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Potential for injuring 
or killing of reptiles 
during 
habitat 
removal, trampling 
and 
vehicular 
movements.  
Moderate adverse 
Due to the ‘Good’ population of 
common lizard within the survey area a 
trapping and translocation programme 
including exclusion fencing will be 
undertaken to help protect any reptiles 
from being injured or killed.  
All works will proceed under a Method 
Statement agreed with the Local 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-105 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Biodiversity Officer/Country Ecologist 
prior to works commencing. 
Breeding Birds 
Permanent 
partial 
loss 
of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including 
trees, 
woodland, 
hedgerows 
and 
scrub.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Localised 
disturbance 
from 
night 
time 
illumination 
in 
winter months.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Birds will adapt to 
localised 
construction noise. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Bats 
Disturbance 
to 
hibernating bats in 
mine shaft and adit.  
Major adverse 
During December 2017, and January 
and February 2018 static bat detectors 
will be placed as near to the estimated 
locations of the mine shaft and adit as 
is safe to do so. This will be done with 
the aim of any bat activity being 
recorded in these areas, suggesting a 
nearby hibernation-site. Results will be 
used to inform any further mitigation to 
seek to avoid impacts on hibernating 
bats.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-106 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Disturbance, injury 
or killing of bats in 
newly 
formed 
roosts 
in 
trees 
previously 
confirmed as not 
supporting roosting 
bats during felling.  
Major adverse 
Pre-construction 
checks 
will 
be 
undertaken on trees scheduled for 
removal for their current bat roost 
potential with consideration of the 
seasonal survey timings. Results will 
be used to inform any further mitigation 
to seek to avoid impacts on roosting 
bats. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Loss 
of 
foraging 
habitat.  
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of habitat 
suitable or supporting bats will include 
the provision of replacement habitats. 
Indicative areas, based on the previous 
layout of the landscaping plans are as 
follows, although these figures are 
subject to change: 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
5.04 
ha 
of 
grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
800m of hedgerow; and, 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Severance 
of 
habitat connectivity 
either 
side 
of 
Access Road.  
Moderate adverse 
Maintain connectivity of foraging and 
commuting habitats by the retention of 
trees 
and 
hedgerows 
wherever 
possible 
and 
utilising 
'brown 
hedgerows' of brash, to maintain 
connectivity during construction. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
significant 
Localised 
disturbance 
from 
Moderate adverse 
Night time working with its associated 
need for additional lighting should be 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-107 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
night 
time 
illumination 
in 
winter months. 
avoided as far as possible within areas 
near to known roosts.  There should be 
no night time illumination of the 
hedgerows, woodland or mature tree 
lines. 
Noise 
disturbance 
on known roosts 
will 
be 
imperceptible.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Water Vole 
There 
is 
the 
potential 
cause 
disturbance 
of, 
harm 
or 
kill 
individual 
water 
voles 
during 
construction within 
10 
m 
of 
Watercourse 45. 
Moderate adverse 
A pre-construction check for water vole 
burrows 
and 
activity 
of 
will 
be 
undertaken 
where 
construction 
is 
present within 100 m of watercourses 
as identified as suitable for supporting 
the species during the 2017 field 
surveys. Habitat management will be 
undertaken to help reduce the quality 
of the habitats for burrow creation for 
the period leading up to and for the 
duration of construction in that area.  
Additional mitigation may be required 
as a result of the survey.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Noise – water voles 
will adapt to noise 
and effects will be 
temporary.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Otter 
There 
is 
the 
potential harm or 
kill individual otters 
Moderate adverse 
A pre-construction check for otter 
holts/couches and activity of will be 
undertaken 
where 
construction 
is 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-108 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
during construction 
within 
10 
m 
of 
Watercourses 9, 11 
12, 41 and 45 and 
Watercourses 
27, 
28 and 29. 
present within 100 m of watercourses 
as identified as suitable for supporting 
the species during the 2017 field 
surveys. Habitat management will be 
undertaken to help reduce the quality 
of the habitats for holt/couch creation 
for the period leading up to and for the 
duration of construction in that area.  
Noise – otters will 
adapt to noise and 
effects 
will 
be 
temporary.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Brown Hare 
Partial 
loss 
of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including grassland, 
broadleaved 
woodland 
and 
scrub. 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
There 
is 
the 
potential 
cause 
disturbance 
of, 
harm 
or 
kill 
individual 
brown 
hares 
during 
construction.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Badger 
There 
is 
the 
potential harm or 
Moderate adverse 
A pre-construction check for badger 
setts and activity will be undertaken 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-109 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
kill 
individual 
badgers 
during 
construction within 
30 m of a sett.  
where construction works are within 30 
m of suitable habitats for badger sett 
creation.  
Additional mitigation may be required 
as a result of the survey. 
Permanent 
partial 
loss 
of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including 
woodland, 
hedgerows, 
scrub 
and grassland. 
Minor adverse 
The introduction of new woodland, 
scrub, 
species-rich 
grassland 
and 
hedgerows will increase opportunities 
for resting, breeding and foraging 
badger. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Night 
time 
illumination in the 
vicinity of badger 
setts 
or 
foraging 
areas 
may 
deter 
badgers from using 
these areas and as 
such 
will 
be 
avoided.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
There 
is 
the 
potential 
for 
disturbance 
of 
badger 
during 
construction due to 
increased 
noise.  
Noise 
from 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-110 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
construction 
equipment 
at 
nearby setts will be 
imperceptible.  
Badgers using the 
Project 
Site 
for 
commuting 
and 
foraging are likely 
to be disturbed in 
the 
immediate 
vicinity 
of 
the 
construction works 
at night time but are 
likely to habituate to 
the 
higher 
background 
noise 
over time.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
Invasive Species 
Potential 
for 
the 
construction of the 
Project to cause the 
spread of invasive 
species 
will 
be 
reduced due to the 
embedded 
mitigation 
to 
implement 
measures 
contained 
in 
relevant 
best 
practice 
guidance 
Minor adverse 
Recommend 
management 
plan 
is 
produced to control and eradicate the 
invasive species within the Project Site 
boundary. 
 
An 
updated 
invasive 
species survey should be undertaken 
to accurately assess invasive species 
and extents within the Project Site 
boundary.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-111 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
on the control and 
removal of invasive 
weed species.  
Gas Connection 
Dense/Continuous 
Scrub 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a temporary 
loss of 0.02 ha 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Rows of Trees – 
Broadleaved 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a temporary 
loss of 350 m.  
Moderate adverse 
Temporarily removed habitats will be 
reinstated. 
Mature 
trees 
will 
be 
replaced by standards of the same 
species or transplanted to a suitable 
location elsewhere within the Project 
Site boundary.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Standalone Trees 
Loss of up to two 
trees. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Semi-Improved 
Neutral Grassland 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a temporary 
loss of 1.02 ha of 
semi-improved 
neutral grassland. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Marshy Grassland Habitat loss – there 
will be a temporary 
loss of 0.01 ha of 
marshy grassland. 
Minor adverse 
Temporarily removed habitats will be 
reinstated. Mitigation for the loss of 
marshy grassland habitat will include 
the provision of replacement habitat. 
The indicative area, based on the 
previous layout, is 5.04 ha of grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy 
grassland 
mosaic). 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-112 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Standing Water 
Habitat 
loss 
– 
temporary removal 
of Pond 23. 
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of standing water 
habitat will include the provision of 
replacement habitat. Provisionally, it 
has been suggested that two wildlife 
ponds will be provided.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Hedgerows 
Habitat loss – there 
will be a temporary 
loss 
180 
m 
of 
species-poor 
hedgerow. 
Moderate adverse 
Temporarily removed habitats will be 
reinstated. 
Mature 
trees 
will 
be 
replaced by standards of the same 
species or transplanted to a suitable 
location elsewhere within the Project 
Site boundary.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Invertebrates 
Loss of habitat - 
temporary removal 
of habitat suitable 
for supporting the 
Section 
7 
listed 
butterfly, 
common 
species, 
and 
Section 7 species 
of 
moth 
and 
butterfly.  
Habitats 
will 
be 
reinstated 
after 
works 
are 
complete. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Amphibians 
Temporary loss of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of habitat 
suitable or supporting amphibians will 
include the provision of replacement 
habitats. Indicative areas, based on the 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-113 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
including a pond 
(may be possible to 
avoid), scrub, semi-
improved 
neutral 
grassland, marshy 
grassland, rows of 
trees and species-
poor hedgerows. 
Habitats 
will 
be 
reinstated 
once 
works 
are 
complete.  
previous layout of the landscaping 
plans are as follows, although these 
figures are subject to change: 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; 
5.04 
ha 
of 
grassland 
(acid 
grassland/marshy grassland mosaic); 
800m of hedgerow; and, 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Potential for injuring 
or 
killing 
of 
amphibians during 
habitat 
removal, 
trampling 
and 
vehicular 
movements.  
Moderate adverse 
The mitigation in place for reptiles will 
help to limit the injury or killing of 
amphibians.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Reptiles 
Temporary loss of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including 
scrub, 
semi-improved 
neutral 
grassland, 
marshy 
grassland 
and 
species-poor 
hedgerows.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-114 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Habitats 
will 
be 
reinstated 
once 
works 
are 
complete.  
Although the works 
are 
temporary 
in 
this area, the loss 
of standing water 
(may be possible to 
avoid) and mature 
rows of trees must 
be 
considered 
permanent due to 
the time required 
for mature trees to 
grow 
and 
the 
change in ground 
conditions making it 
unlikely 
for 
the 
pond 
to 
reform 
without 
human 
intervention.  
Moderate adverse 
Mitigation for the loss of habitat 
suitable or supporting reptiles will 
include the provision of replacement 
habitats. Indicative areas, based on the 
previous layout of the landscaping 
plans are as follows, although these 
figures are subject to change: 
0.91 ha of woodland/scrub; and, 
Two wildlife ponds. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Potential for injuring 
or killing of reptiles 
during 
habitat 
removal, trampling 
and 
vehicular 
movements.  
Moderate adverse 
Due to the ‘Good’ population of 
common lizard within the survey area a 
trapping and translocation programme 
including exclusion fencing will be 
undertaken to help protect any reptiles 
from being injured or killed.  
All works will proceed under a Method 
Statement agreed with the Local 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-115 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Biodiversity Officer/Country Ecologist 
prior to works commencing. 
Breeding Birds 
Temporary removal 
of habitat with the 
potential to support 
breeding 
birds 
(trees, 
woodland, 
hedgerows 
and 
scrub). 
Habitats 
will 
be 
reinstated 
once 
works 
are 
complete.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Localised 
disturbance 
from 
night 
time 
illumination 
in 
winter months.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Noise 
generated 
during construction. 
Birds will adapt to 
localised 
construction noise. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Bats 
Disturbance, injury 
or killing of bats in 
newly 
formed 
roosts 
in 
trees 
previously 
confirmed as not 
Major adverse 
Pre-construction 
checks 
will 
be 
undertaken on trees scheduled for 
removal for their current bat roost 
potential with consideration of the 
seasonal survey timings. Results will 
be used to inform any further mitigation 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-116 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
supporting roosting 
bats during felling.  
to seek to avoid impacts on roosting 
bats. 
Disturbance 
to 
hibernating bats in 
adit.  
Major adverse 
During 
December, 
January 
and 
February 2017 static bat detectors will 
be placed as near to the estimated 
locations of the adit as is safe to do so. 
This will be done with the aim of any 
bat activity being recorded in these 
areas, suggesting a nearby hibernation 
site. Results will be used to inform any 
further mitigation to seek to avoid 
impacts on hibernating bats.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Disturbance 
to 
roosting 
bats 
in 
Buildings 6, 7 & 8.  
Major adverse 
Building assessments and further bat 
surveys 
will 
be 
undertaken 
on 
Buildings 6, 7 and 8. Results will be 
used to inform any further mitigation to 
seek to avoid impacts on roosting bats.  
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Loss 
of 
foraging 
habitat.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Severance 
of 
habitat connectivity 
through removal of 
hedgerows and tree 
lines.  
Moderate adverse 
Maintain connectivity of foraging and 
commuting habitats by the retention of 
trees 
and 
hedgerows 
wherever 
possible 
and 
utilising 
'brown 
hedgerows' of brash, to maintain 
connectivity during construction.  For 
linear features identified as key forging 
or commuting habitat, where possible 
the Gas Connection should be installed 
using drilling to retain feature and 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-117 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
connectivity across the Project Site.   
Localised 
disturbance 
from 
night 
time 
illumination 
in 
winter months are 
limited due to the 
embedded 
mitigation 
in 
the 
lighting plan. 
Minor adverse 
Night time working with its associated 
need for additional lighting should be 
avoided as far as possible within areas 
near to known roosts.  There should be 
no night time illumination of the 
hedgerows, woodland or mature tree 
lines. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Noise 
disturbance 
on known roosts 
will 
be 
imperceptible.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Otter 
There 
is 
the 
potential harm or 
kill individual otters 
during construction 
within 
10 
m 
of 
Watercourse 6. 
Moderate adverse 
A pre-construction check for otter 
holts/couches and activity of will be 
undertaken 
where 
construction 
is 
present within 100 m of watercourses 
as identified as suitable for supporting 
the species during the 2017 field 
surveys. Further mitigation measures 
may be required if activity is found. 
Habitat 
management 
will 
be 
undertaken to help reduce the quality 
of the habitats for holt/couch creation 
for the period leading up to and for the 
duration of construction in that area.  
Additional mitigation may be required 
as a result of the survey. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-118 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Noise – otters will 
adapt to noise and 
effects 
will 
be 
temporary.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
Brown Hare 
Partial 
loss 
of 
suitable 
breeding, 
foraging 
and 
sheltering 
habitat 
including grassland, 
broadleaved 
woodland 
and 
scrub. 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
There 
is 
the 
potential 
cause 
disturbance 
of, 
harm 
or 
kill 
individual 
brown 
hares 
during 
construction.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Badger 
There 
is 
the 
potential harm or 
kill individual otters 
during construction 
within 30 m of a 
sett.  
Moderate adverse 
A pre-construction check for badger 
setts and activity will be undertaken 
where construction works are within 30 
m of suitable habitats for badger sett 
creation.  
Additional mitigation may be required 
as a result of the survey. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Trapping 
of 
badgers 
in 
open 
Moderate adverse 
Sloping escape ramps for badgers 
should be created by edge profiling 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-119 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
excavations 
and 
obstructing 
the 
movement 
of 
badger across the 
Project Site.  
trenches/excavations 
and/or 
excavations should be fitted with a 
scaffolding board ramp to allow any 
trapped animals to exit. Crossing 
places will be provided across open 
excavations for the duration of the 
works on the sections where known 
badger paths have been identified. 
Open pipework greater than 150 mm 
diameter that is left over night will be 
made secure by either filling in the end 
of the pipe or covering the end with a 
solid timber panel or similar. 
Night 
time 
illumination in the 
vicinity of badger 
setts 
or 
foraging 
areas 
may 
deter 
badgers from using 
these areas and as 
such 
will 
be 
avoided.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
There 
is 
the 
potential 
for 
disturbance 
of 
badger 
during 
construction due to 
increased 
noise 
and 
vibration.  
Noise and vibration 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-120 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
from 
construction 
equipment 
at 
nearby setts will be 
imperceptible.  For 
some setts badgers 
will 
already 
be 
habituated to road 
noise and vibration.  
Badgers using the 
Project 
Site 
for 
commuting 
and 
foraging are likely 
to be disturbed in 
the 
immediate 
vicinity 
of 
the 
construction works 
at night time but are 
likely to habituate to 
the 
higher 
background 
noise 
over time.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not 
Significant 
Invasive Species 
Potential 
for 
the 
construction of the 
Project to cause the 
spread of invasive 
species 
will 
be 
reduced due to the 
embedded 
mitigation 
to 
implement 
Minor adverse 
Recommend 
management 
plan 
is 
produced to control and eradicate the 
invasive species within the Project Site 
boundary. 
 
An 
updated 
invasive 
species survey will be undertaken to 
accurately assess invasive species 
and extents within the Project Site 
boundary prior to the production of the 
final 
management 
plan 
and/or 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-121 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
measures 
contained 
in 
relevant 
best 
practice 
guidance 
on the control and 
removal of invasive 
weed species.  
implementation of control measures.  
Electrical Connection 
Breeding Birds 
Localised 
disturbance 
from 
night 
time 
illumination 
in 
winter months.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Birds will adapt to 
localised 
construction noise. 
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-122 
 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification of 
effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant 
/ Not 
Significant 
Otter  
There 
is 
the 
potential harm or 
kill individual otters 
during construction 
within 
10 
m 
of 
Watercourses 
27, 
28 and 29. 
Moderate adverse 
A pre-construction check for otter 
holts/couches and activity of will be 
undertaken 
where 
construction 
is 
present within 100 m of watercourses 
as identified as suitable for supporting 
the species during the 2017 field 
surveys. Habitat management will be 
undertaken to help reduce the quality 
of the habitats for holt/couch creation 
for the period leading up to and for the 
duration of construction in that area.  
Additional mitigation may be required 
as a result of the survey. 
Minor adverse 
Not 
Significant 
Noise – otters will 
adapt to noise and 
effects 
will 
be 
temporary.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-123 
 
Table 8-18: Ecology summary of effects arising during operational phase 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification of 
Effect 
Additional Mitigation 
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
Power Generation Plant 
Invertebrates 
Effects 
from 
operation 
lighting.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not Significant 
Reptiles 
Vibration 
from 
the 
operation of the Power 
Generation Plant will be 
limited to the immediate 
area and as such will only 
deter 
reptiles 
from 
a 
localised area.   
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Risk of direct mortality 
from the use of the 
Access 
Road 
by 
operational traffic.  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor adverse 
Not Significant 
Bats 
Noise 
disturbance 
on 
known 
roosts 
will 
be 
imperceptible.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Disturbance from lighting 
emitted from the Power 
Generation 
Plant. 
Embedded mitigation will 
limit 
light 
spill 
onto 
ecologically 
sensitive 
features.  
Minor adverse 
The 
lighting 
should 
utilise 
warm 
light 
luminaire 
such 
as 
yellow or amber LED.  
White LED lamps have 
a broad spectrum of 
light with whilst yellow 
and amber LED lamps 
each have a specific, 
narrower spectrum and 
have 
peak 
Minor adverse 
Not Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-124 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification of 
Effect 
Additional Mitigation 
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
wavelengths between 
590 
and 
660 
nm, 
which is less attractive 
to invertebrates.  This 
in turn will reduce the 
number of bats that will 
be attracted to feed 
and 
be 
open 
to 
predation 
through 
increased visibility. 
Badger 
Road 
traffic 
mortality 
along 
Access 
Road. 
However, there will be a 
low speed limit and traffic 
counts when otters are 
most active.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
New fencing inhibiting the 
movement of otter across 
the Project Site. 
Negligible 
Where possible, any 
new 
fencing 
will 
continue to allow the 
movement 
of 
otter 
across the Project Site.  
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Night time illumination in 
the vicinity of badger 
setts or foraging areas 
may deter badgers from 
using these areas and as 
such will be avoided.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not Significant 
There is the potential for 
disturbance 
of 
badger 
during operation due to 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-125 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification of 
Effect 
Additional Mitigation 
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
increased 
noise 
and 
vibration.  Noise 
and 
vibration from operation 
at nearby setts will be low 
and badgers will become 
habituated to the noise.  
Vibration 
will 
be 
imperceptible. For some 
setts badgers will already 
be habituated to road 
noise and vibration.  
Badgers using the Project 
Site for commuting and 
foraging are likely to be 
disturbed 
in 
the 
immediate vicinity of the 
Power Generation Plant 
at night time but are likely 
to habituate to the higher 
background noise over 
time.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible  
Not Significant 
Water Vole 
Noise will be localised 
and water voles will adapt 
to the noise.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
No effects on aquatic 
species 
from 
treated 
waste water.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Otter  
Road 
traffic 
mortality 
along 
Access 
Road. 
However, there will be a 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-126 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification of 
Effect 
Additional Mitigation 
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
low speed limit and traffic 
counts when otters are 
most active.  
New fencing inhibiting the 
movement of otter across 
the Project Site. 
Negligible 
Where possible, any 
new 
fencing 
will 
continue to allow the 
movement 
of 
otter 
across the Project Site.  
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Noise – otters will adapt 
to noise and effects will 
be localised.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
No effects on aquatic 
species 
from 
treated 
waste water.  
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-127 
 
 Project ‘inter effects’ 
a)
8.9.2 
The predicted effects of the Project upon receptors to air quality are limited to those 
assets listed in Table 8-17 and Table 8-18, and as such no significant impacts are 
predicted from the Project.  
8.10 
Cumulative Effects 
a) Assessment of Potential Cumulative Effects – Construction and Demolition 
i. 
Description of baseline where cumulative impacts expected 
8.10.1 The assessment of residual effects identified that the implementation of the Project 
would have no significant effects once mitigation measures have been fully 
implemented. The assessment of cumulative effects relies upon there being a 
perceptible effect as a result of the project being considered in order for this to be 
significant in combination with other projects. It is therefore considered that there is 
no potential for cumulative impacts on ecological receptors as a result of operation 
of the Project in combination with the identified other projects. 
8.10.2 No further mitigation will be required.  
b) Assessment of Potential Cumulative Effects – Operation 
i. 
Description of baseline where cumulative effects expected 
8.10.3 It is considered that there is no potential for cumulative impacts on ecological 
receptors as a result of operation of the Project in combination with the identified 
other schemes as all residual effects were considered not to be significant.  
8.10.4 No further mitigation will be required.  
8.11 
Conclusions and Next Steps 
8.11.1 This chapter has identified ecological designated sites, habitats, species or 
ecosystems which may be affected by the Project and assessed the likelihood of 
significant effects.  
8.11.2 No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of the 
Project, or the Project as whole due to the embedded mitigation inherent within the 
design but also the application of additional mitigation where required.  
8.11.3 The following surveys are ongoing and will be undertaken in 2018: 
 
Hedgerow survey in April 2018; 
 
Ongoing bat activity surveys in April and May 2018; and 
 
Breeding bird survey in March / April 2018; 
8.11.4 Where possible the survey results will be provided in the DCO Application, or follow 
soon after submission. Any delayed results are not expected to materially change 
the impact assessment results. It is also intended to continue liaison with CCS and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-128 
 
NRW regarding the ecological mitigation required for reptiles and other species 
present onsite.  
8.12 
References 
 
Ref. 8.1 
Department of Energy and Climate Change (July 2011) Overarching National 
Policy 
Statement 
for 
Energy 
(EN-1) 
- 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/
37046/1938-overarching-nps-for-energy-en1.pdf 
Ref. 8.2 
Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) 
(2016). Guidelines for Ecological Impact Assessment in the UK and Ireland; 
Terrestrial, Freshwater and Coastal. Second Edition. January 2016.  
Ref. 8.3 
Collins, J. (ed.) (2016). Bat Surveys for Professional Ecologists: Good 
Practice Guidelines (3rd ed). The Bat Conservation Trust, London.  
Ref. 8.4 
Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) 
(2013). Guidelines for Preliminary Ecological Appraisal April 2016. 
Ref. 8.5 
AECOM (2017). Abergelli Power Station Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 
Abergelli Power Limited May 2017. 
Ref. 8.6 
Joint Nature Conservation Committee (2010 Ed.). Handbook for Phase 1 
Habitat Survey – A Technique for Environmental Audit. JNCC. Peterborough 
Ref. 8.7 
English Nature (August 2001). Great Crested Newt Mitigation Guidelines. 
English Nature  
Ref. 8.8 
Froglife (1999). Advice Sheet 10 – Reptile Survey.  An Introduction to 
planning, conducting and interpreting surveys for snake and lizard 
conservation.  
Ref. 8.9 
Gent, T. and Gibson, S. (2003). Herpetofauna Workers’ Manual. JNCC, 
Peterborough. 
Ref. 8.10 
Hundt, L. (2012) Bat Surveys: Good Practice Guidelines, 2nd edition, Bat 
Conservation Trust.  
Ref. 8.11 
Bright, P., Morris, P. and Mitchell-Jones, A. (2006). Dormouse Conservation 
Handbook Second Edition. English Nature, Peterborough.  
Ref. 8.12 
Chanin P (2003). Monitoring the Otter Lutra lutra. Conserving Natura 2000 
Rivers Monitoring Series No. 10, English Nature, Peterborough.  
Ref. 8.13 
Dean, M.,Strachan, R., Gow, D. and Andres, R. (2016). The Water Vole 
Mitigation Handbook (The Mammal Society Mitigation Guidance Series). Eds 
Fiona Mathews and Paul Chanin. The Mammal Society, London. 
Ref. 8.14 
Harris, S., Cresswell, P. and Jefferies, D. (1991). Surveying Badgers. 
Occasional Publication No.9. The Mammal Society, London.  
Ref. 8.15 
Common Bird Census (CBC) (Marchant, 1983; Bibby et al. 1992. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 8: ECOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
8-129 
 
Ref. 8.16 
IAQM (2012). Guidance on Air Quality Monitoring in the Vicinity of Demolition 
and Construction Sites. IAQM, London.  
Ref. 8.17 
DMRB (2007). Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, Volume 11 
Environmental 
Assessment, 
Section 
3 
Environmental 
Assessment 
Techniques, Part 1 HA 207/07, Air Quality (May 2007). 
Ref. 8.18 
Institution of Lighting Professionals’ Guidance Notes for the Reduction of 
Obstructive Light (2011) 
Ref. 8.19 
AECOM (2017). Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report.  
Ref. 8.20 
C J Wilson and R G Byrnes (1996). The Management of Problems Involving 
Badgers (Meles meles). Protection of Badgers Act 1992 licensing cases dealt 
with on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in England 
from 1992 to 1996. A report by the Farming and Rural Conservation Agency 
on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. 
Ref. 8.21 
Bruce-White, C. and Shardlow, M. (2011). A Review of the Impact of Artificial 
Light on Invertebrates; Buglife – The Invertebrate Conservation Trust  
Ref. 8.22 
Chanin, P. (2003). Ecology of the European Otter (Lutra lutra) Conserving 
Natura 2000 Rivers Ecology Series No. 10. 
Ref. 8.23 
Herpetofauna Groups of Britain and Ireland (HGBI) (1998). Evaluating local 
mitigation/translocation programmes: Maintaining Best Practice and lawful 
standards. HGBI advisory notes for Amphibian and Reptile Groups (ARGs).  
 
