Climate policy
Drax Climate Policy
Climate policy
Foreword
Tackling climate change is at the heart of our purpose: to enable a zero carbon, 
lower cost energy future.
Over the last decade, we’ve transformed from being one of the largest coal-fired 
power generators in western Europe to becoming the UK’s largest single site 
renewable electricity generator. Drax Power Station also represents Europe’s 
largest decarbonisation project. 
We recognise the scale of the challenge that climate change represents and the 
pivotal role that businesses must play in tackling it. That’s why we announced 
our ambition to become carbon negative by 2030. By pioneering bioenergy 
with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) technology, we aim to remove more 
carbon from the atmosphere than we emit. This will help the UK – and the world 
– achieve its climate change targets.
We’re committed to managing and disclosing climate change risks and 
opportunities in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We disclose against the four TCFD 
recommendations in our annual report and accounts, and respond to the CDP 
Climate Change Questionnaire each year.
This policy outlines how Drax integrates the effective management of climate 
related risks and opportunities into everyday decision-making and the delivery 
of our business strategy.
Will Gardiner
Group CEO
Our purpose – to enable a zero carbon, lower cost 
energy future – means we’ll play a leading role in 
the UK’s journey to a net zero economy.
“
“
Climate policy
Strong governance – 
embedding climate change 
in decision-making at all 
levels of the business
Our governance framework supports effective decision-making 
and the delivery of our strategy. A core component of this 
framework is the impact of our practices upon climate change.
The CEO oversees and ensures that Drax effectively implements the business 
strategy, and reports quarterly to the Board on Environment, Social and 
Governance (ESG) performance. These reports include a section from our Chief 
Sustainability Officer to update the Board on climate-related matters and the 
company’s progress towards our 2030 carbon negative ambition. In addition, 
the Chief Sustainability Officer reports on the progress of the climate plan at 
least quarterly to the Executive Committee, and at least annually to the Board. 
Our Independent Advisory Board provides independent advice on sustainable 
biomass and its role in our decarbonisation.
We report on climate-related matters within our annual report and accounts and 
measure performance within our corporate scorecard. We use this scorecard to 
assess executive performance and remuneration.
1
Climate policy
Strategy – a purpose, plan, and ambition that places 
climate change at the heart of what we do
1. A global leader in sustainable biomass pellets
Drax believes that the global market for sustainable biomass will grow significantly, 
creating opportunities for sales to third parties in Asia and Europe, BECCS, 
generation and other long-term uses of biomass. Delivery of these opportunities is 
supported by the expansion of the Group’s biomass pellet production capacity.
2. A global leader in negative emissions
Subject to the right regulatory environment, Drax plans to transform Drax Power 
Station into the world’s biggest carbon capture project using BECCS to permanently 
remove 8Mt of CO2 emissions from the atmosphere each year by 2030. The project 
is well developed, the technology is proven and an investment decision could be 
taken in 2024 with the first BECCS unit operational in 2027 and a second in 2030, 
subject to the right investment framework.
3. A UK leader in dispatchable, renewable generation
The UK’s plans to achieve net zero by 2050 will require the electrification of heating 
and transport systems, resulting in a significant increase in demand for electricity. 
Drax believes that over 80% of this could be met by intermittent renewable and 
inflexible low-carbon energy sources – wind, solar and nuclear. However, this will 
only be possible if the remaining power sources can provide the dispatchable power 
and non-generation system support services the power system requires to ensure 
security of supply and to limit the cost to the consumer.
2
Our purpose – to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy 
future – informs the three pillars of our strategy, to become:
1. A global leader in sustainable biomass pellets
2. A global leader in negative emissions
3. A UK leader in dispatchable, renewable generation
Our strategy is complemented by an ambition to be a carbon negative 
company by 2030. We’ll do this by delivering carbon removals in excess 
of emissions within our direct business operations through deployment 
of bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS). In doing so, we’ll 
support the UK Government and other businesses to achieve net zero 
carbon emissions. 
To ensure we continue to align ourselves with science, our decarbonisation 
strategy aligns with Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
scenarios to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C above pre-
industrial levels with low or no overshoot and considers the necessary role 
of bioenergy and BECCS in delivering credible decarbonisation pathways. 
We remain committed to reducing all our remaining emissions as far as 
possible across the full footprint of the business. We’ve set greenhouse gas 
(GHG) reduction targets across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 for 2030, as we describe 
in section 4 of this policy statement. 
Risk management – 
integrating climate-related 
risks into our company-wide 
risk management approach 
The Board is responsible for determining risk appetite and ensuring 
the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls across 
the company.
Our company-wide approach to risk management, defined by the Group 
Risk Management Policy, encompasses the assessment and management 
of climate-related risks. We therefore assess climate change as a principal 
risk category. The Chief Sustainability Officer, a member of the Executive 
Committee, owns the climate change principal risk, and the Executive 
Committee also reviews it annually. We make and present an analysis of all 
principal risk categories, including Climate Change, to the Executive Committee 
twice a year.
We disclose key climate risks and mitigations in our annual report and accounts.
3
Climate policy
Climate policy
Metrics and targets – achieving our ambition to 
become carbon negative by 2030
4
We’ll also make sure that our targets align with UK carbon budgets and 
IPCC scenarios to limit global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, 
with low or no overshoot.
We measure and disclose our scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. 
We monitor our business performance in other key climate areas such as 
waste, water, and biodiversity. And we disclose data on our key metrics in 
our annual report and accounts.
We’ll achieve our ambition by using technologies such as BECCS, and 
by identifying emissions reduction and efficiency projects. 
We’re committed to the Science Based Targets initiative for external assurance that 
our target is aligned with climate science. On this basis, we’ve submitted the following 
targets for validation set against a 2020 baseline:
• 75.7% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions from electricity generation by 2030
• 42% reduction in non-generation scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030
• 42% reduction in scope 3 emissions by 2030
DR1500
