Voting ID
Task ID
Shareholder Reference No.
Form of Proxy – Drax Group plc
+
+
+
+
Attendance card for the Annual General Meeting
As you arrive at the roundabout for the Museum of London, look for the circular  
artwork in the window and go through the revolving doors to reception.
The 2022 Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc is to be held at 12.30pm on 
Wednesday 27 April 2022 at etc.venues St Paul’s, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
Please detach and retain this attendance card and bring it with you if you come along 
to the Annual General Meeting to show as evidence of your right to be admitted.
Please bring with you a driving licence or passport or other form of photo ID. If you do 
not have your attendance card, you may be asked to provide two forms of identity 
(which may require photo identity and verification of your address). If you have been 
appointed as proxy for a shareholder entitled to vote, please let the admission staff 
know. You should bring proof of identity with you and you will be asked to confirm the 
details of the shareholder you are representing.
Do not post this section with the Form of Proxy. 
Shareholder reference number:
Signature of person attending:
Please refer to the notes on the attached page and the explanatory notes in the accompanying Notice of Annual 
General Meeting before completing this form.
I/We hereby appoint the Chair of the Annual General Meeting or
Name of proxy 
Number of shares proxy is appointed over
as my/our proxy to exercise all or any of my/our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my/our ordinary shares 
on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 27 April 2022 
and at any adjournment thereof. I appoint my/our proxy to attend, speak and vote in the manner indicated below.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made: 
 (see Note 2).
You may register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging onto www.sharevote.co.uk and using the 
reference numbers above or, if you have previously registered with the Company’s registrar’s online portfolio service 
Shareview, www.shareview.co.uk.
 
 
 
Vote 
Resolutions 
For  
Against 
Withheld
1 
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
 
2 
To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the Chair of the Remuneration  
 
Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
 
 
3 
To approve the final dividend. 
 
 
4 To elect Kim Keating as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
5 
To elect Erika Peterman as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
6 To re-elect Philip Cox as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
7 
To re-elect Will Gardiner as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
8 To re-elect Andy Skelton as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
9 To re-elect John Baxter as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
10 To re-elect Nicola Hodson as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
11 To re-elect David Nussbaum as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
12 To re-elect Vanessa Simms as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
13 To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor. 
 
 
14 Authority for the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. 
 
 
15 Authority to make political donations to specified limits. 
 
 
16 Authority to allot shares. 
 
 
17 Authority to make non pre-emptive share allotments.* 
 
 
18 Authority to purchase own shares.* 
 
 
19. To adopt a new Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). 
 
 
20 To approve amendments to the Drax Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan. 
 
 
21 Authority to call a General Meeting on not less than 14 days’ notice.* 
 
 
* Special resolution
Signature 
Date
 
SHAREHOLDERS ARE ENCOURAGED TO SUBMIT THEIR PROXY VOTING INSTRUCTIONS IN ADVANCE  
OF THE MEETING
Aldersgate St
Little Britain
London Wall
Noble St
Oat Lane
R
o
t
u
n
d
a
Museum 
of London
Pret A Manger
Ironmongers’ Hall
Plaisterers’ Hall
Postman’s Park
etc.venues St Paul’s
200 Aldersgate
Notes
1 
Only holders of ordinary shares, or their duly appointed 
representatives, are entitled to vote at the meeting. A 
shareholder so entitled may appoint (a) proxy(ies), who need 
not be (a) shareholder(s), to exercise all or any of their rights 
to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the 
meeting. Unless otherwise instructed, the person appointed 
as proxy will exercise their discretion as to how they vote or 
whether they withhold a vote on any particular resolution 
and on any other business (including amendments to 
resolutions and any procedural business), which may come 
before the AGM.
2 
You can appoint the Chair of the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) or anyone else to be your proxy at the AGM. You can 
also, if you wish, appoint more than one proxy provided that 
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a 
different share or shares held by you.
• 
To appoint the Chair as your sole proxy in respect of all 
your ordinary shares complete any voting instructions 
but leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
• 
To appoint a single proxy in respect of all your ordinary 
shares other than the Chair, delete only the words “the 
Chair of the Annual General Meeting” and insert the 
name of your proxy (who need not be a shareholder of  
the Company) and complete any voting instructions.
• 
To appoint more than one proxy, (an) additional proxy 
form(s) may be obtained by contacting the registrar or 
you may photocopy the Form of Proxy. Please indicate in 
the box next to the proxy holder’s name, the number of 
shares in relation to which you authorise them to act as 
your proxy and complete any voting instructions. Please 
also indicate by ticking the box provided on the Form of 
Proxy if the proxy instruction is one of multiple 
instructions being given. All Forms of Proxy should be 
returned together in the same envelope.
 
If the box next to the proxy holder’s name is left blank, your 
proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of all your 
ordinary shares.
3 
The Form of Proxy gives your proxy full rights to attend, 
speak and vote at the AGM.
4 
Please indicate with an “X” in the boxes provided how you 
wish your vote to be cast. Unless otherwise instructed, the 
person appointed as proxy will exercise their discretion as to 
how they vote or whether they abstain from voting on any 
particular resolution and on any other business (including 
amendments to resolutions and any procedural business), 
which may come before the AGM.
5 
The ‘Vote withheld’ boxes are provided to enable you to 
abstain from voting on any particular resolution. You should 
note, however, that a ‘Vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and 
will not be counted in determining the proportion of votes 
cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution on a poll
6 
Paper proxy forms must be received at Equiniti Limited, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 
6DA, not later than 48 hours before the AGM to be effective 
(i.e. before 12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022). If the proxy 
form is signed by someone else on your behalf, his or her 
authority to sign must be returned with the proxy form. In 
the case of a corporation, the appointment of a proxy must 
be executed either under its common seal or by a duly 
authorised officer or agent. In the case of joint holders, any 
holder may sign. The vote of a more senior joint holder on 
the Register will be accepted to the exclusion of a junior 
joint holder. For this purpose, the order in which the names 
of the joint holders are recorded in the register of members 
will determine seniority.
 
Alternatively, Electronic Proxy Appointment (EPA) is 
available for the AGM. To use this facility, you must visit  
www. sharevote.co.uk where details of the procedure are 
shown. The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference 
Number shown on the Proxy Form will be required to 
complete the procedure. EPA will not be valid if received 
after 12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022 and will not be 
accepted if found to contain a computer virus.
7 
Only those shareholders registered in the register of 
members of the Company at 6.30pm on Monday 25 April 
2022 (or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30pm on the 
date which is two days before the time of the reconvened 
adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to vote at the AGM  
in respect of the number of shares registered in their 
respective names at that time. Changes to entries on the 
register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person voting at the AGM. Full 
details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, with 
explanatory notes, are set out in the enclosed Notice of AGM.
8 
Information on voting electronically via the internet or 
through CREST is contained in the notes to the Notice 
of AGM.
9 
Any alterations to this proxy form should be initialled.
Further information about the AGM
If you would like to view the meeting electronically, please follow 
the instructions on pages 17 and 18 of the Notice of Meeting. You 
will require the following details:
Meeting ID: 129-877-982
Username: Shareholder Reference Number (SRN)
Password: First and last two digits of your SRN
To watch and listen to the presentations and submit questions  
in writing, you will need to log in to the meeting via the website 
‘https://web.lumiagm.com’. You will need the Meeting ID, your 
Username and Password.
If you have appointed a proxy or corporate representative they 
will need their own SRN and PIN which can be obtained by 
contacting the Company’s registrar before 12:30pm on 25 April 
2022 on 0371 684 2030 or +44(0) 121 415 7047 if you are calling 
from outside the UK.
