Energy 
Revolution: 
A Global 
Outlook
Headline messages
The global energy revolution 
As a contribution to COP24, this report informs the 
debate on decarbonising the global energy system, 
evaluating how rapidly nations are transforming their 
energy systems, and what lessons can be learned 
from the leading countries across five energy sectors. 
It was commissioned by power utility Drax Group, and 
delivered independently by researchers from Imperial 
College London and E4tech.*
Clean power
•
Several countries have lowered the carbon content 
of their electricity by 100 g/kWh over the last 
decade. The UK is alone in achieving more than 
double this pace, prompted by strong carbon 
pricing.
•
China is cleaning up its power sector faster than 
most of Europe, however several Asian countries 
are moving towards higher-carbon electricity.
•
Germany has added nearly 1 kW of renewable 
capacity per person over the last decade. Northern 
Europe leads the way, followed by Japan, the US 
and China. In absolute terms, China has 2.5 times 
more renewable capacity than the US.
Carbon capture and storage
•
Sufficient storage capacity has been identified for 
global CCS roll-out to meet climate targets, but 
large-scale CO2 capture only exists in 6 countries.
•
Worldwide, 5 kg of CO2 can be captured per 
person per year. The planned pipeline of CCS 
facilities will double this, but much greater scale-up 
is needed as this represents only one-thousandth 
of the global average person’s carbon footprint of 
5 tonnes per year.
Efficiency
•
Global progress on energy intensity is mixed, as 
some countries improve efficiency, while others 
increase consumption as their population become 
wealthier.
•
Residential and transport changes over the last 
decade are mostly linked to the global recession 
and technological improvements, rather than 
behavioural shift. 
•
BRICS countries consume the most energy per $ of 
output from industry. This is linked to the 
composition of their industry sectors (i.e. greater 
manufacturing and mining activity compared to 
construction and agriculture).
* Authors: Dr Iain Staffell, Dr Malte Jansen: Imperial College London
Adam Chase, Eloise Cotton, Chester Lewis: E4tech
Fossil fuels
•
Two-fifths of the world’s electricity comes from 
coal. The share of coal generation is a key driver for 
the best and worst performing countries in clean 
power.
•
Coal’s share of electricity generation has fallen by 
one-fifth in the US and one-sixth in China over the 
last decade. Denmark and the UK are leading the 
way. Some major Asian nations are back-sliding.
•
Many European citizens pay out $100 per person 
per year in fossil fuel subsidies, substantially more 
than in the US or China. These subsidies are 
growing in more countries than they are falling.
Electric vehicles
•
In ten countries, more than 1 in 50 new vehicles 
sold are now electric. China is pushing ahead with 
nearly 1 in 25 new vehicles being electric and 
Norway is in a league of its own with 1 in 2 new 
vehicles now electric, thanks to strong subsidies 
and wealthy consumers.
•
There are now over 4.5 million electric vehicles 
worldwide. Two thirds of these are battery electric, 
one third are plug-in hybrids. China and the US 
together have two-thirds of the world’s electric 
vehicles and half of the 300,000 charging points.
Introduction
Methodology
First, global decarbonisation scenarios were 
examined to identify five critical technologies and 
measures that are consistently relied upon to limit 
climate change to below 2°C. The measures and 
reports consulted are detailed in Appendix I.
International datasets were then compiled to 
investigate the progress made by countries towards 
these key areas. The results presented are based 
upon data collected from other sources, as 
opposed to fresh modelling. When the geographic 
coverage of a dataset was limited, complementary 
statistics were sourced and methodologies were 
aligned to form a single dataset.
Progress towards these metrics is typically 
represented as the pace of change in the last 
decade, as this is important in understanding how 
energy systems are transforming in the context of 
achieving targets. Metrics have been normalised to 
the human scale (e.g. the share of vehicles, 
emissions per person), to ensure that actual 
process is reflected as opposed to the sheer size of 
a country.
The progress of 25 major countries is highlighted 
throughout the report. These include all of the G7 
and BRICS countries, and together they represent 
80% of the global population, 77% of GDP, and 
73% of carbon emissions. 
Reading the charts
Each metric is presented with a global map and the leader board for the 25 major countries:
kW p.p.
The major countries 
we focus on are 
highlighted
The map shows 
data for other 
countries where 
possible
The bar chart 
shows how our 25 
major countries 
compare
These countries are 
ranked from best to 
worst performing 
The legend explains 
what the chart is 
showing, and what 
the colours refer to
Countries with no 
data are greyed out
The width of each 
country’s bar 
represents how the 
data was normalised 
(e.g. if the data is per 
person, bar width 
scales with country’s 
population)
Countries are colour coded according to their progress
How is the UK performing?
UK government has rebooted its support for CCS 
with a vision to become a world leader and deploy 
at scale in the 2030s. After cancelling a £1bn 
scheme in 2015, new funding of £335m has been 
announced. In comparison, consistent government 
support in the US and China has allowed large-
scale CCS facilities to already be demonstrated. 
The UK has demonstrated conclusively that market 
instruments can be implemented in a cost-effective 
manner to transition energy systems in line with 
climate goals. For example, the carbon floor price is 
credited with causing the coal phase-out, as well as 
spurring investment in low carbon technologies. 
Other market mechanisms, such as Contracts for 
Difference have greatly expanded renewable 
generating capacity. 
The UK should think more holistically about its 
policies that directly or indirectly support fossil 
fuels, as these are working against overall climate 
targets. This could see the UK modelling itself after 
Denmark, which has decreased its fossil fuel 
support by almost 90% over the last decade.
Across the five areas we consider, Denmark is 
leading the way in transforming its energy system, 
followed closely by the UK in 2nd and Canada 3rd.
The UK’s performance is consistent across the 14 
metrics we consider, being in the top 5–10 countries 
across most of them. It is within the top 7 countries 
for reducing the energy intensity of its economy, 
and it has the 5th largest fleet of electric vehicles.
The UK is world-leading in grid decarbonisation, 
reducing its carbon content by over 250g CO2/kWh 
in the last decade. Linked to this, the UK has seen 
the world’s fastest rate of phasing out coal power 
generation.
The two notable let-downs are the UK’s high and 
growing subsidies for fossil fuels, and the lack of 
large-scale carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
capacity. The UK is among the worst performers in 
supporting the fossil fuel industry through direct 
budgetary transfers and tax expenditures. 
Read more about how Britain’s energy systems transition is progressing, the regional inequalities 
that are emerging, and how these will impact upon households, businesses and the environment
https://www.drax.com/energy-policy/energising-britain-progress-impacts-outlook-transforming-uk-energy-system/
Sources: IEA (2017a), BP (2018), Wilson and Staffell (2018) 
Clean power
Carbon content of electricity
Clean electricity supply is fundamental to virtually all visions of a
decarbonised global economy. This requires the rapid transition away from
coal, oil and gas towards renewables and nuclear. Clean electricity can then
power vehicles, heating and industry as a major route to decarbonising
these sectors.
In 2017, the global average carbon intensity of electricity was 450 gCO2 per
kWh consumed. In our league table, 16 out of 25 major countries are below
this average, and 3 are below a longer-term target of 50 gCO2/kWh.
The wide variation in carbon intensity across countries reflects the diversity
in their generation mixes:
•
Scandinavia, France and New Zealand benefit from abundant hydro
resources and/or nuclear power, resulting in almost zero carbon grids.
•
Many countries emit around 300–500 g/kWh, using a mix of coal, gas
and low-carbon sources.
•
China, India, Poland and South Africa rely heavily on coal power, and so
their electricity contains up to twice the global average amount of CO2.
Comparing the two largest economies: China consumes ~6,500 TWh of
electricity per year with a carbon intensity of 640 g/kWh, and the US
consumes ~4,250 TWh at 420 g/kWh.
If China could reduce its carbon intensity by a third to match the US, global
CO2 emissions would fall by around 4%. If China and America could both
match the UK, global emissions would fall by 9%; a testament to the scale
and importance of the power sector.
g/kWh
Clean power
Carbon content of electricity
The global average carbon intensity of electricity has fallen by only 7%
(33 gCO2/kWh) in the last decade (2008 to 2017).
Countries have on average cleaned up their power systems at twice this rate
(67 gCO2/kWh). However, rising consumption in the higher-carbon countries
(India, Indonesia, China) has tempered the global average fall.
The UK has decarbonised its power sector much faster than any other
country in the world. The carbon intensity of the UK’s electricity has more
than halved in the last decade, due to the rapid phase-out of coal power and
growth of renewables.
Despite talk of bringing back coal in America, or China building a new coal
power station every week, these two countries have performed better than
most in cleaning up their power sectors in the last decade.
Other countries with high-carbon grids, such as Poland, Australia and South
Africa are also slowly reducing their carbon intensity.
Several large Asian countries are moving towards higher-carbon grids due
to nuclear phase-out (Japan), rapid demand growth (South Korea) and an
entrenched coal industry (Indonesia). Brazil also saw a large increase (albeit
from a low level) due to the 2017 droughts reducing hydro output.
The UK’s lesson is that carbon pricing can be a fast and effective tool for
decarbonisation. The decision to increase the UK’s CO2 price by £16 ($21)
per tonne made coal power stations uneconomic relative to gas. Stronger
carbon pricing added to clean air legislation in pushing older coal plants into
early retirement, and the conversion of several coal units to burn biomass.
Sources: IEA (2017a), BP (2018), Wilson and Staffell (2018) 
g/kWh
Renewable energy has revolutionised the power sector, forming half of all 
new generating capacity installed for the last two years running. Global wind 
and solar capacity are increasing by around 20% and 40% annually, while 
biomass and hydro are growing at around 8% and 4% respectively.
The last ten years (2008 to 2017) has seen an extra 1,125 GW of renewable 
power generating capacity installed worldwide. Of this, 400 GW of wind, 375 
GW of solar, 310 GW of hydropower and 55 GW of biomass and waste. 
Worldwide this amounts to an average of 156 Watts per person, enough to 
power a small fridge freezer or ten LED lightbulbs for every person on the 
planet.
Germany and Scandinavia lead the pack, and 8 of the top 10 countries are 
in Europe. Germany has installed nearly 1 kW of renewable capacity per 
person over the last decade, due to the widespread rollout of both wind and 
solar power. This has been facilitated by generous feed-in tariffs whilst costs 
were coming down. Germany ranks 1st for solar and 3rd for wind capacity 
installed per person.
China, the US and Japan are comparable, with 0.33–0.4 kW of renewables 
per person installed over the last decade. In absolute terms, China has 
installed 2.5x more renewables than any other country, with over 600 GW 
installed in total, versus 230 GW in 2nd ranked America. 
India is rapidly increasing its ambitions for renewables, but as of 2017 had 
just one-third the global average, with 52 watts installed per person.
Sources: IRENA (2018) 
Clean power
Installed renewable capacity
kW 
p.p.
As the most polluting fuel for electricity generation, a shift away from coal 
power generation is essential. The pathways to limit climate change to 
below 2°C universally show a worldwide abandonment of unabated coal-
fired electricity eliminated between 2040 and 2050. Overall coal power 
(including with CCS) falls by 90% between now and 2050.
Coal has provided around two-fifths of the world’s electricity for the last 30 
years. This has barely moved over the last decade as the falling share in 
most OECD countries is being countered by growing electricity demand in 
coal-reliant Asian countries.
In 2017, our sample of major countries ranged from using coal for 0% up to 
almost 90% of their electricity generation. Of the six least-reliant countries, 
four are in Europe, and all make significant use of hydropower or nuclear for 
their electricity supply. The UK sits just outside this group in 7th position.
Of the six heaviest coal users, three are in Asia, joined by South Africa, 
Australia and Poland. All of these countries have significant indigenous coal 
resources, which presents complex challenges to reducing reliance on coal. 
Three major elements are fears of job losses in the powerful mining 
industries, security concerns if coal is replaced with imported fuels, and the 
risk of raising electricity bills which would impact economic growth and 
living standards.
In a growing number of regions, new wind and solar plants can now 
compete with the short-term generation costs of existing coal plants. In the 
US, coal is further being undercut by low-cost natural gas, while in Europe 
stronger CO2 prices are having a similar effect.
Sources: IEA (2017a), BP (2018), Wilson and Staffell (2018)
Fossil fuels
Phasing out coal power
The share of coal in global electricity generation has only fallen by 2% over 
the last decade (2008 to 2017). The progress being made in some countries 
is offset by the increasing reliance on coal in parts of Asia, and a shift in the 
centre of gravity of electricity consumption from Europe and the US (which 
average 25%) towards Asia (which averages 60%).
The largest national reductions have happened in the UK and Denmark, who 
have switched one quarter of their electricity supplies from coal to gas and 
renewables over the last decade.
Coal reliance has declined slightly across Europe (from 26 to 22% on 
average). Clean air directives have hastened the closure of older coal plants, 
although the EU-wide carbon price has done little to disincentivise coal 
generation until recently. 
Coal’s share in the US has fallen to 30% primarily because of market forces. 
The low cost of natural gas since the shale revolution has made coal 
uncompetitive, and the latest pro-coal policies are not seeing its resurgence.
However, many Asian countries are strengthening their reliance: Indonesia, 
India, Japan and South Korea have all seen marked increases. Of all the 
countries in Asia, North Korea is the unlikely climate champion for having 
halved its coal reliance to 20% over the last decade.
At COP23, Canada and the UK launched the Powering Past Coal Alliance, 
which has grown to 75 countries, states and companies. Its mission is to 
see a complete phase-out of unabated coal by 2030 in the OECD and EU, 
and 2050 worldwide.
Sources: IEA (2017a), BP (2018), Powering Past Coal Alliance (2018)
Fossil fuels
Phasing out coal power
Sources: OECD (2018a, 2018b)    Note: * 5th largest in absolute terms, 6th largest per capita
Fossil fuels
Removing fossil fuel subsidies
Government support for fossil fuels is a perverse feature of many
economies, especially in the developed world. We use the OECD’s
estimates of the level of government support for fossil fuels.
The OECD use a consistent definition of subsidy/support mechanism, which
includes direct expenditures by government, forgone tax revenues and other
fiscal concessions. This may differ from specific national definitions.
For example, the UK defines a fossil fuel subsidy as any government action
that lowers the pre-tax price to consumers below the international market
level. The UK government does not believe it has any fossil fuel subsidies.
According to the OECD definition, the UK is the 5th largest* supporter of
fossil fuels among our 25 countries, to the tune of $10 billion per year. Fossil
fuels are supported by direct budgetary transfers (e.g. seismic survey
programme), tax expenditures (e.g. onshore allowances) and VAT relief on
household fuel bills.
The inventory is populated with information from published government
sources, mainly from their annual budgets. The OECD does not claim that
this is an exhaustive list as it is dependent on the data from countries’
budget books.
Countries with large fossil fuel endowments tend to have higher fossil fuel
subsidies, for example Norway and Australia. Fossil subsidies per person,
and as a share of GDP, are highest in developed nations. However, this
may, at least partly, be related to greater transparency in their national
accounts compared to more developing countries.
$ p.p.
The change in fossil fuel subsidies from 2007 to 2016 varies considerably, 
with 15 countries having increased their support over that period. 
Russia and Norway have seen the largest increases. In 2015, Russia 
introduced tax reductions for the extraction of oil from isolated hydrocarbon 
deposits. In the same year, Norway reinstated a subsidy to cover the costs 
of a state-owned coal mine operator, Store Norske, to avoid bankruptcy. 
Some countries have decreased their relative fossil fuel support, though for 
some this is more strongly related to the recent fall in oil price, resulting in 
lower forgone taxes.
Denmark reduced its fossil fuel support by almost 90% between 2007 and 
2016. This is a result of ending the Reduced Energy Duty for CHP 
Generation, as well as greater renewable energy use backing out fossil fuels 
and therefore decreasing forgone taxes. 
Mexico implemented a special excise tax (IEPS) with an overarching goal to 
eliminate gasoline and diesel fuel support. This saw fossil fuel subsidies as a 
proportion of GDP halve in just two years. 
China, the US, Germany, Mexico, Peru, New Zealand, the Philippines, 
Taiwan, Vietnam, Finland and Sweden have conducted peer reviews to 
identify inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. Indonesia, Italy, Argentina, Canada, 
and Brunei are understood to be completing their reviews. 
A Sustainable Development Goal indicator for fossil fuel support is being 
developed, and by 2020 all countries will start reporting on it annually. 
Sources: OECD (2018a, 2018b) 
Fossil fuels
Removing fossil fuel subsidies
The sales of electric vehicles are increasing rapidly, and here we show the 
latest data (to September 2018) in partnership with EV-volumes.com. 
Over 4.5 million vehicles on the roads are electric, of which two-thirds are 
battery electric (BEV) and one-third plug-in hybrid electric (PHEV) vehicles. 
New electric vehicle sales in 2017 surpassed 1.2 million units. 
Despite the recent growth in EV sales, in all countries, apart from Norway, 
EVs make up less than 10% of newly sold vehicles, with many around the 
2% mark (i.e. 1 in 50 new cars sold are electric). This is related to the higher 
initial cost of an electric vehicle compared to a petrol/diesel one. Therefore, 
EV sales are currently dependent on a series of measures implemented to 
stimulate their growth. 
Norway started offering EV incentives in the 1980s. The current incentive 
portfolio for electric vehicles includes: no import or purchase taxes, no VAT, 
no road tax, no road tolls, half price on ferries, free municipal parking and 
access to bus lanes. This package of support makes the total cost of 
owning an electric vehicle cheaper than a conventional vehicle in Norway. 
In Sweden and the Netherlands grants and tax exemptions have been 
implemented, respectively, based on a vehicle’s CO2 emissions, therefore 
heavily favouring electric vehicles. 
China has had one of the fastest growth in EV sales and claims over 50% of 
the passenger plug-in car market. The government has set a target of EV 
annual sales totalling 2 million by 2020, which is being facilitated by 
generous subsidies. This is paired with a target for manufacturers to 
produce at least one EV model by 2019.
Sources: EV-volumes (2018a, 2018b), Ecofys (2018), Reuters (2017), Zhou (2017), 
CleanTechnica (2017), European Automobile Manufacturers Association (2017), Jones (2018). 
Electric vehicles
Share of EV sales
Governments and private companies are providing charging facilities to 
stimulate EV uptake. In partnership with EV-volumes.com, we show the 
number of available chargers per thousand people, as of September 2018. 
As with EV sales, Norway leads with approximately 1 charger for every 500 
people. This compares to 1 charger for every 5,000 people in the UK, 1 for 
every 10,000 people in China, Japan and the US, and 1 for every 5 million 
people in India. 
There are some 300,000 charging points worldwide, half of which are in 
China. Despite its size, the US has only slightly more charging points than 
Germany or France at present.
Charging network development is heavily driven by policy, with major 
support in the three countries that lead in terms of per-capita deployment.
Norway is implementing an extensive charging infrastructure network, by 
installing two fast charging stations for every 50 km of main road. 
In the Netherlands, the Dutch Living Lab Smart Charging is a public-private 
partnership which aims to provide EV charging from wind and solar power in 
a cost-effective manner. Electric vehicles are also offered free charging in 
public places. 
Sweden has implemented a range of support measures to support the 
development of a charging network. For example the ‘Charge at Home’ 
incentive or the ‘Klimatklivet’ provide grants for the installation of charging 
points to various stakeholders. The Swedish government is also investing in 
charging infrastructure that could help dispel concerns over range 
capabilities e.g. EV charging road outside Stockholm.
Sources: EV-volumes (2018a), Ecofys (2018), Zhou (2017), CleanTechnica (2017), Siemens (2017) 
Electric vehicles
Number of EV charging points
According to most scenarios, significant CCS deployment is required to 
remain below 2°C of warming. Despite this, progress has been slow and 
current capture rates represents around 0.1% of total worldwide emissions. 
Worldwide, 5 kg of CO2 can be captured per person per year, versus an 
average carbon footprint of 5 tonnes CO2 per annum.
Currently, there are 18 operating capture facilities worldwide, concentrated 
in 6 countries with a total capacity of 32 MtCO2 p.a. A further 5 facilities are 
under construction in 3 countries, totalling 7 MtCO2 p.a. The US has the 
greatest absolute capture capacity, of over 20 MtCO2 p.a. 
Norway, Canada and Australia rank highest per capita due to their large 
fossil fuel industries, relative to population size. Together with the UK and 
US, these countries are ranked highest for ‘CCS readiness’ due to their 
progress in removing barriers to future CCS deployment.
The current deployment of carbon capture facilities is strongly influenced by 
national political environments. In the US, tax credits have been in place 
since 2008 for the geological storage of CO2, and the US Congress 
approved an increase in these credits in 2018. 
In China, the 12th and 13th Five Year Plans had a specific goal to develop 
CCS, which has resulted in China having the largest number of CCS pilot 
and demonstration plants, and the most large-scale facilities in planning. 
Other policy measures can also indirectly support the deployment of CCS, 
for example carbon taxes in Norway and Japan, emission performance 
standards in the UK, and carbon trading schemes such as the EU ETS in 
Europe and the impending one in China.
Sources: Global CCS Institute (2018a, 2018b, 2018c)
CCS
Capacity for carbon capture
kg/year
p.p.
Storage resources are not a barrier to CCS deployment. The IEA estimates 
that 100 billion tonnes of CO2 must be stored (cumulative to 2060) to limit 
temperature rise to 2°C at least cost, in a scenario where one-sixth of 
emissions reductions come from CCS. The US alone has an estimated 
storage capacity of over 10 trillion tonnes of CO2. 
Many countries possess over 1,000 tonnes of CO2 per person, which is 
several times an average person’s lifetime carbon footprint. 
Only 20% of large-scale industrial plants store captured CO2 in dedicated 
geological storage. The majority use it instead for Enhanced Oil Recovery. 
As this increases oil production (which is unlikely to be burnt with CCS), this 
is not compatible with reducing global carbon emissions.
Expected to be completed in 2019, Australia’s Gorgon Project will be the 
world’s largest storage dedicated CO2 store with injection rates of between 
3.4 and 4 million tonnes per year. 
Dedicated national programs have advanced storage portfolios in countries:
•
In the US, the National Technology Energy Laboratories Regional Carbon 
Sequestration Partnerships is considered a pioneering model for storage 
site development. Several storage projects have been established with 
capacities over 1 million tonnes. 
•
Norway are continually assessing their storage potential, and currently 
have two operating sites Snøhvit and Sleipner, with a third in planning. 
•
The UK has estimated its storage capacity at around 70 billion tonnes. 
However, it has yet to deploy a site, due to the lack of capture capacity.
Sources: Global CCS Institute (2018d); Consoli and Wildgust (2017), Anthonsen et al. (2013), 
Höller and Viebahn (2011), Rütters and the CGS Europe partners (2013)
CCS
Potential CO2 storage capacity
tonnes
p.p.
Energy efficiency is widely referred to as ‘the first fuel’ for energy transitions, 
as improvements can result in significant cost, energy and emission 
reductions. We evaluate the change in energy intensity from 2008–17.
Most countries have reduced their energy consumption per m2 of household 
floor area. This is linked to improvements in housing stock, strict energy 
performance standards for appliances, milder winters (possibly a symptom 
of climate change) and residual effects of the global recession. 
Rising incomes in South Africa, China and Indonesia have seen appliance 
usage and thermal comfort increase, pushing up residential energy intensity. 
A number of policy instruments have been implemented worldwide to 
improve residential energy efficiency. Countries with more diverse policies 
tend to be more successful in reducing home energy consumption: 
•
Japan: Flat35 Mortgage scheme which secures fixed, low-interest 35 
year mortgages for homes that, among other requirements, meet 
stringent energy efficiency standards. 
•
Netherlands: Energiesprong, a government-funded innovation 
programme, refurbishes homes to a net zero energy standard. This 
concept has spread to France, the UK, Germany and New York state. 
•
Germany: Rising energy taxes can explain residential efficiency gains. In 
2018, 80% of household electricity prices were taxes and fees, 
compared to 65% in 2008, causing electricity prices to increase by 35% 
despite a fall in wholesale price. 
•
UK: Reduced VAT charges of 5% are available when installing energy-
saving products, like solar panels, heat pumps and insulation.
Sources: IEA (2017a, 2017b), World Energy Council (2017), OECD (2017), 
GOV.UK (2018), Energiesprong (2018), Clean Energy Wire (2018)
Efficiency
Energy intensity of households
Transport energy intensity is an interplay between several factors:
•
Shifting from petrol to diesel vehicles
•
Modal shifts
•
Improvements in vehicle fuel efficiencies
•
Increased electrification of transport 
•
Decrease in occupancy rates of vehicles
•
Increased size of vehicles e.g. SUVs
China, India and Indonesia have increased their energy consumption per 
person in transport by over 50%. Rising incomes are leading to private 
vehicles displacing public transport and decreasing private vehicle 
occupancy rates.
In Europe, fuel efficiency standards and the replacement of petrol vehicles 
with diesel vehicles explain the modest decreases in the energy intensity of 
transport in the last decade (albeit with negative impacts on air quality). 
The varying fuel efficiencies across different markets suggest greater 
potential efficiency gains for many countries. According to research by the 
IEA, in the period between 2000 and 2017, 2.2 million barrels of oil per day 
could have been saved if all vehicles had the best-standard fuel efficiency. 
In Spain, a variety of support programs were implemented to improve 
transport efficiency focusing on encouraging smaller passenger cars, the 
modal shift, uptake of alternative vehicles, and rail efficiency. 
The Netherlands have continued to increase their share of freight 
transported by rail or on waterways – more efficient modes per tonne 
kilometre than road.
Sources: IEA (2017a, 2018), World Bank (2018), Odyssee-Mure (2012, 2018)
Efficiency
Energy intensity of transport
We compare industrial efficiency in terms of energy consumed per $ of gross 
value added (GVA). Improvements vary widely, with more than half our 
countries consuming more energy per dollar than they did a decade ago.
In absolute terms, BRICS countries consume the most energy per GVA – a 
result of large manufacturing and mining sectors. However, in the last 
decade, of these countries, only China decreased its energy intensity. 
In China’s 12th 5-year plan, a provision was included on industry efficiency 
improvements – the Top 1,000 Programme. The overall aim was for the top 
1,000 most energy intensive companies to reduce their energy consumption 
per unit of GDP produced by 20% over the 5 years. This was achieved with 
over of 1,200 TWh of energy saved. This programme was subsequently 
transitioned to include the top 10,000 companies. 
Implemented in 2009, Japan set mandatory efficiency targets for steel, 
cement, pulp and paper and chemicals manufacturing sectors. These 
sectors consume 60% of the total energy use in industry. Since its 
implementation, energy intensity in these manufacturing sectors have 
improved by 1.4% per year. 
In 2012, India implemented the Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme, 
whereby energy efficiency targets are set for energy-intensive, industrial 
consumers. A key feature of the policy is a trading mechanism, where energy 
saving certificates are produced for consumers who exceed their required 
energy savings. These certificates can then be traded with other consumers 
who have not met their targets.
Norway has seen the largest increase, but over 70% of its industry sector is 
electrified, making it susceptible to large changes in electricity prices.
Sources: IEA (2017a, 2018), UN Stats (2018), Industrial Efficiency Policy Database (2018)
Efficiency
Energy intensity of industry
Conclusions
•
The average worldwide carbon intensity of 
electricity production is 440 gCO2 per kWh. 
However, there are large variations from close to 
0g per kWh in Norway to upwards of 800 g per 
kWh in South Africa, reflecting the different 
generation mixes in each country. In the UK, 
carbon pricing has been an effective tool to 
decarbonise its grid by over 250 g per kWh in a 
decade. 
•
In the last ten years, 1,125 GW of renewable 
capacity has been installed, which is equivalent 
156 W per person. Wind and solar capacities are 
the fastest growing renewables with rates of 20% 
and 40% per year, respectively. Countries with the 
largest uptake in renewables are also those that 
have provided the greatest subsidies. This has 
helped these technologies progress down their 
cost curves, and are now approaching cost parity 
point, where their uptake would be fully market-
driven. 
•
A few countries have made a significant move 
away from coal for electricity generation, which 
has had a significant effect on decarbonising their 
grids. The Powering Past Coal Alliance has 
expanded to 28 countries, and seeks the 
elimination of coal within the next 12 years.
•
•
•
•
If CCS is to play a role in decarbonisation, as most
scenarios predict, then progress to date must be
radically increased. Currently, large-scale CCS
deployment is limited to 6 countries, with a total
capacity of around 40 MtCO2 per annum, or 0.1%
of global emissions. Four-fifths of this is used to
support oil production, and may not contribute
effectively to decarbonisation.
Carbon storage resources are not a barrier to
meeting climate targets. Clearer political support
and greater synergies are required to develop CCS
capacity, especially for heavy industry which may
be difficult to fully decarbonise otherwise.
Improvements in residential and transport
efficiency have been mixed. Improving living
standards in developing countries are pushing up
their energy intensities towards those of developed
countries. In developed countries, appliance
saturation, environmental policies and residual
effects of the recession are resulting in apparent
efficiency gains.
Industrial efficiency improvements have also varied
and are largely driven by changing composition in 
national industrial sectors, as opposed to process 
efficiencies. Only a few countries – e.g. China, 
India and Japan – have directly targeted industry 
to implement measures improving efficiency.
•
Government subsidies for fossil fuels are a perverse 
feature of many economies. Subsidies per capita 
are highest in developed countries such as Norway 
and Australia. Over half of the 25 countries 
investigated have increased their support between 
2007 and 2016, hampering the energy transition 
needed to achieve climate targets. However, more 
promisingly, 16 countries worldwide are using peer 
review to identify and assess inefficient fossil fuel 
subsidies. The effect of these reviews will hopefully 
be seen in future iterations of the OECD fossil fuel 
subsidy inventory. 
•
One two countries have achieved a 5% share (more 
than 1 in 20) of new cars sold being electric. The 
higher upfront costs of electric vehicles is a barrier, 
suggesting that support measures are required to 
help drive this technology forward. Norway has 
implemented a wide range of measures that push 
the total cost of ownership of an electric vehicle 
well below that of petrol and diesel cars. Almost 1 
in 2 new cars sold in Norway today are electric.  
•
With increasing EV deployment, governments and 
private companies are providing greater charging 
facilities. This will not only encourage further uptake 
in the technology, but will also help dispel fears 
around lower driving range. 
Appendix I
Methodology  
& References
Methodology
Technology and measure selection
Technologies and measures were selected based on a review of influential scenarios; 
namely the IPCC Special Report on 1.5 degrees, IEA Energy Technology Perspective 
and World Energy Outlook, and analysis of the IAMC 1.5 degree scenarios database.* 
This highlighted the following suite of technologies and measures required to achieve 
climate targets:
•
Clean power: low carbon electricity generation, including renewables, biomass 
and nuclear
•
Phase-out of fossil fuels, with a focus on eliminating coal power and fossil fuel 
subsidies 
•
Electrification of passenger vehicles
•
Carbon Capture and Storage
•
Improved energy efficiency across the economy
Country selection
Country selection was based on including all G7 and BRICS countries, as well as the 
five more populous countries, ensuring that the largest developed and emerging 
economies were considered. The remaining countries were selected based on their 
membership to the IEA/OECD and/or their geographical location (i.e. to ensure 
countries selected were spatially distributed). Lastly, some countries could not be 
included due to limited data availability.
Data collection
International data was then collected to investigate the progress made by countries 
towards these key areas. The results presented are based off data collected from 
other sources, as opposed to internal modelling. When the geographic coverage of a 
dataset was limited, complementary statistics were sources and methodologies were 
aligned to form a single dataset.
Progress assessment
Progress towards these metrics is typically represented as the pace of change in the 
last decade, as this is important in understanding how energy systems are 
transforming the context of achieving targets. Metrics are also normalised to the 
human scale (e.g. the share of vehicles, emissions per person), to ensure that actual 
process is reflected as opposed to the sheer size of a country. 
* Huppmann, Rogelj, Kriegler, Krey and Riahi. 2018. 
A new scenario resource for integrated 1.5 °C research. 
Nature Climate Change. doi.org/10.1038/s41558-018-0317-4
References
Clean Power
•
IEA (2017a) “World Energy Balances 2016”. 
•
BP (2018) “Statistical Review of World Energy”.
•
Wilson, I.A.G. and Staffell, I. (2018). “Rapid fuel switching from coal to natural gas through 
effective carbon pricing”. Nature Energy, 3, 365–372.
•
IRENA (2018) “Renewable Capacity Statistics”
Fossil Fuels
•
IEA (2017a) “World Energy Balances 2016”. 
•
BP (2018) “Statistical Review of World Energy”.
•
Wilson, I.A.G. and Staffell, I. (2018). “Rapid fuel switching from coal to natural gas through 
effective carbon pricing”. Nature Energy, 3, 365–372.
•
Powering Past Coal Alliance (2018). “About”. https://poweringpastcoal.org
•
OECD (2018a) “OECD analysis of budgetary support and tax expenditures”. 
http://www.oecd.org/site/tadffss/data/
•
OECD (2018b) “OECD Companion to the Inventory of Support Measures for Fossil Fuels 2018”. 
https://read.oecd-ilibrary.org/energy/oecd-companion-to-the-inventory-of-support-measures-
for-fossil-fuels-2018_9789264286061-en#page1
EV sales
•
EV-volumes (2018a) – Data supplied directly
•
Reuters (2017) “China targets 35 million vehicle sales by 2025, NEVs to make up one-fifth”. 
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-autos-electric/china-targets-35-million-vehicle-sales-
by-2025-nevs-to-make-up-one-fifth-idUSKBN17R086
•
EV-volumes (2018b) “China Plug-in Vehicle Sales for the 1st Half of 2018”. http://www.ev-
volumes.com/country/china/
•
Zhou, V. (2017) “3 Electric car incentives you need to know in Europe”. 
https://blog.evbox.com/electric-car-incentives
•
Clean Technica (2017) “Electric Car Incentives in Norway, UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, 
& Belgium”. https://tinyurl.com/pressman-2017-09-02
•
European Automobile Manufacturers Association (2017) “Interactive map: Electric vehicle 
incentives per country in Europe”. https://www.acea.be/statistics/article/interactive-map-
electric-vehicle-incentives-per-country-in-europe
•
Jones, H. (2018) “What’s put the spark in Norway’s electric car revolution?”. 
https://www.theguardian.com/money/2018/jul/02/norway-electric-cars-subsidies-fossil-fuel
•
Ecofys (2018) “Incentives for Electric Vehicles in Norway – Fact Sheet”. 
https://tinyurl.com/norway-ev-factsheet
EV Charging Stations
•
EV-volumes (2018a) – Supplied data directly
•
Siemens (2017) “eHighway – Solutions for electrified road freight transport”. 
https://www.siemens.com/press/en/feature/2015/mobility/2015-06-ehighway.php
•
Zhou, V. (2017) “3 Electric car incentives you need to know in Europe”. 
https://blog.evbox.com/electric-car-incentives
•
Clean Technica (2017) “Electric Car Incentives in Norway, UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, 
& Belgium”. https://cleantechnica.com/2017/09/02/electric-car-incentives-norway-uk-france-
germany-netherlands-belgium/
•
Ecofys (2018) “Incentives for Electric Vehicles in Norway – Fact Sheet”. 
https://www.euki.de/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/fact-sheet-incentives-for-electric-vehicles-
no.pdf
References
CCS capacity
•
Global CCS Institute (2018a) “The Global Status of CCS: 2017”. 
https://tinyurl.com/gccsi-status-2017
•
Global CCS Institute (2018b) “CCS Policy Indicator (CCS-PI)”. 
https://tinyurl.com/gccsi-ccspi
•
Global CCS Institute (2018c) “Projects Database”. https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/projects
CCS Storage
•
Global CCS Institute (2018d) “CCS Storage Indicator (CCS-SI)”. 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/publications/ccs-storage-indicator-ccs-si
•
Consoli, C.P. and Wildgust, N. (2017) “Current status of global storage resources”. Energy 
Procedia (114), 4623-4628. 
•
Anthonsen, K.L, Aagaard, P., Bergmo, P.E.S., Erlström, M., Fareida, J.I., Gislason, S.R., 
Mortensen, G.M., Snæbjörnsdottir, S.Ó. (2013) “CO2 Storage Potential in the Nordic Region”. 
Energy Procedia (37), 5080-5092.
•
Höller, S. and Viebahn, P. (2011) “Assessment of CO2 Storage Capacity in Geological 
Formations of Germany and Norther Europe”. Energy Procedia (4), 4897-4904. 
•
Rütters, H. and the CGS Europe partners (2013) “State of play on CO2 geological storage in 28 
European countries. CGS Europe report No. D2.10”, June 2013, 89 p.
Residential Efficiency
•
IEA (2017a) “World Energy Balances 2016”. 
•
IEA (2017b) “Energy Efficiency Indicators 2016”. 
•
Badan Pusat Statistik (2012) “Jumlah Rumah Tangga Menurut Luas Lantai Tempat Tinggal dan 
Jumlah Anggota Rumah Tangga”. 
https://sp2010.bps.go.id/index.php/site/tabel?tid=334&wid=0
•
Government of India Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (2017) “HOUSING –
Statistical Year Book India 2017”. http://mospi.nic.in/statistical-year-book-india/2017/197
•
Kumar, A. (2016) “India’s Residential Rental Housing”. 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/304153916
•
INEGI (2017) “Characteristics of Households”. http://en.www.inegi.org.mx/temas/hogares/
•
Point2Homes (2017) “Homes Sizes in the US: Expectations vs Reality”. 
•
Sidra (2016) “Table 2864”. https://sidra.ibge.gov.br/tabela/2864#resultado
•
STATS SA (2017) “Building statistics, 2015”. 
http://www.statssa.gov.za/publications/Report-50-11-01/Report-50-11-012015.pdf
•
STATS SA (2012) “Building statistics, 2010”. 
http://www.statssa.gov.za/publications/Report-50-11-01/Report-50-11-012010.pdf
•
STATS SA (2015) “Buildings statistics, 2013”. 
http://www.statssa.gov.za/publications/Report-50-11-01/Report-50-11-012013.pdf
•
Federal State Statistics Service (2017) “Russia in Figures”. 
http://www.gks.ru/free_doc/doc_2017/rusfig/rus17e.pdf
•
Federal State Statistics Service (2010) “Russia in Figures”. 
http://www.gks.ru/bgd/regl/b10_12/IssWWW.exe/Stg/d01/07-15.htm
•
National Bureau of Statistics of China (2011) “China Statistical Yearbook”. 
http://www.stats.gov.cn/tjsj/ndsj/2011/indexeh.htm
•
National Bureau of Statistics of China (2011) “China Statistical Yearbook”. 
http://www.stats.gov.cn/tjsj/ndsj/2013/indexeh.htm
•
Statistics Norway (2017) “Housing and housing economy”. https://www.ssb.no/sosiale-forhold-
og-kriminalitet/artikler-og-publikasjoner/sosiale-indikatorer-2014?tabell=206775
•
World Energy Council (2017) “World Energy Perspectives: Energy efficiency policies 2016”. 
https://tinyurl.com/wec-efficiency-2016
•
OECD (2017) “PH2.1 Public Spending on Financial Support to Home Buyers”. 
https://www.oecd.org/els/family/PH2-1-Public-spending-support-to-home-buyers.pdf
•
GOV.UK (2018) “Tax on shopping and services”. 
https://www.gov.uk/tax-on-shopping/energy-saving-products
•
Energiesprong (2018) “About Energiesprong”. http://energiesprong.eu/about/
•
Clean Energy Wire (2018) “What German households pay for power”. 
https://www.cleanenergywire.org/factsheets/what-german-households-pay-power
References
Transport Efficiency
•
IEA (2017a) “World Energy Balances 2016”. 
•
World Bank (2018) “Population, total”. https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.TOTL
•
IEA (2018) “Energy Efficiency 2018: Analysis and outlooks to 2040”. 
https://webstore.iea.org/download/direct/2369?fileName=Market_Report_Series_Energy_Effici
ency_2018.pdf
•
Odyssee-Mure (2018) “Energy efficiency trends and policies”. Available from: 
http://www.odyssee-mure.eu/publications/efficiency-trends-policies-profiles/spain-country-
profile-english.pdf
•
Odyssee-Mure (2012) “Energy Efficiency Trends and Policies in Transport”. 
http://www.odyssee-mure.eu/publications/br/energy-efficiency-in-transport.html
Industry Efficiency
•
IEA (2017a) “World Energy Balances 2016”. 
•
UN Stats (2018) “National Accounts Main Aggregates Database”. 
https://unstats.un.org/unsd/snaama/dnllist.asp
•
Industrial Efficiency Policy Database (2018) CN-3a: Top-1000 Energy-Consuming Enterprises 
Program. http://iepd.iipnetwork.org/policy/top-1000-energy-consuming-enterprises-program
•
IEA (2018) “Energy Efficiency 2018: Analysis and outlooks to 2040”. 
https://webstore.iea.org/download/direct/2369?fileName=Market_Report_Series_Energy_Effici
ency_2018.pdf
Appendix II
Supplementary Results
Clean power
Installed capacity of renewables (end of 2017)
Clean power
Installed capacity of wind power (end of 2017)
Clean power
Installed capacity of solar power (end of 2017)
Clean power
Installed capacity of biomass power (end of 2017)
Clean power
Installed capacity of offshore wind (end of 2017)
Fossil fuels
Fossil fuel subsidies in 2016
Electric vehicles
Plug-in vehicles and chargers (September 2018)
CCS
Large-scale capacity operating & under construction (2018)
CCS
Large-scale capacity operating, under constr. & planned (2018)
CCS
Potential capacity for carbon storage
Efficiency
Energy intensity of households
Efficiency
Energy intensity of transport
Efficiency
Energy intensity of industry
Please refer to this report as:
I. Staffell, M. Jansen, A. Chase, E. Cotton and C. Lewis 
(2018).  Energy Revolution: Global Outlook.  Drax: Selby.
