SMART ENERGY SOLUTIONS
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts
2016
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
IFC 2016 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Q&A with the CEO
06 Chief Executive’s review
12 
Smart energy solutions
 
Smart sourcing
 
Smart generation
 
Smart supply
24 Our marketplace
26 Our business model
28 Performance review
36 Sustainability review
46 Stakeholder engagement
50 Group financial review
54 Viability statement
55 Principal risks and uncertainties
GOVERNANCE
62 Corporate governance
64 The Board and its committees
68 Board of Directors
72 The Executive Committee
74 Nominations Committee report
77 Audit Committee report
82 Remuneration Committee report
108 Directors’ report
111 Directors’ responsibilities statement
FINANCIALS
112 Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of Drax Group plc
117 Financial statements
119 Contents
120 Consolidated income statement
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income
 
Consolidated balance sheet
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 
Consolidated cash flow statement
125 Financial performance
137 Operating assets and working capital
142 Financing and capital structure
146 Other assets and liabilities
150 Our people
157 Risk management
165 Reference information
167 Drax Group plc Company financial statements
 
Company balance sheet
 
Company statement of changes in equity
169 Notes to the Company financial statements
173 Shareholder information
176 Glossary
Smart energy solutions for today’s  
and tomorrow’s challenges.
For more than a decade, Drax Group plc has been leading the 
world in developing the technology and capacity to provide 
flexible, reliable and affordable generation and supply of 
electricity from sustainable biomass. 
The flexibility that our biomass provides makes us the perfect 
partner for intermittent renewables, plugging the gaps when 
the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow.
Drax continues to explore options to deliver targeted long-
term growth, evaluating opportunities across the markets 
in which we operate – pellet supply, generation and retail. 
Our strategy will deliver greater diversification for the 
business as it helps change the way energy is generated, 
supplied and used for a better future.
Smart sourcing: Drax transforms underutilised low-grade 
wood into high-quality compressed wood pellets. Our 
strategy is to expand our self-supply of sustainable biomass.
Smart generation: We use this fuel to produce a reliable 
supply of low-carbon renewable electricity from our upgraded 
power station. We also operate flexible coal-fuelled units and 
plan to develop four rapid-response gas generation plants.
Smart supply: Drax provides renewable electricity 
to businesses and helps keep the UK electricity supply 
secure. We’re always working to develop new technologies.
2016 Highlights
£2,950M
Total revenue
(2015: £3,065 million)
£376M
Gross profit
(2015: £409 million)
£93M
Net debt
(2015: £187 million) 
£140M
EBITDA(1)
(2015: £169 million)
5P
Underlying basic earnings 
per share(1)
(2015: 11p)
0.22
Total recordable injury rate
(2015: 0.31)
16%
Percentage of total UK 
renewable electricity generated(2)
(2015: 16%)
65%
Percentage of Drax’s electricity 
generated by sustainable 
biomass
(2015: 43%)
(1) See page 118.
(2) Drax estimates that it produced around 
16% of the renewable electricity 
generated under support schemes 
covered by the Levy Control 
Framework.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
WHAT’S 
INSIDE?
SMART SOURCING
SMART GENERATION
SMART SUPPLY
Drax Biomass is a world-class 
provider of compressed wood 
pellets from sustainably 
managed forests.
Drax Power generates around 
7% of the UK’s electricity needs 
– reliably and affordably. We also 
sell our power through the UK 
wholesale electricity markets. 
Haven Power supplies electricity 
to businesses. Billington 
Bioenergy supplies sustainable 
compressed wood pellets 
to provide businesses and 
households with renewable heat.
We take low-grade wood and 
transform it into high-quality 
pellets that can be transported 
safely and efficiently around the 
world to supply reliable, flexible 
and affordable low-carbon energy. 
In 2016, Drax Power produced 
16% of the UK’s total renewable 
electricity – playing a vital role 
in ensuring stability, security 
of supply and the transition 
to a low-carbon future.
Haven offers customers 100% 
renewable electricity, competitive 
pricing and contracts tailored 
precisely to their needs. We  
were named Supplier of the  
Year at the 2016 Energy Awards.
900,000 16%
14.6TWH
Our two pellet processing plants 
in the USA can produce 900,000 
metric tonnes of compressed 
wood pellets every year.
We have the flexibility to help 
meet electricity demand when 
intermittent renewables like solar 
or wind power cannot generate.
Haven Power increased 2016 
power sales from 13.8TWH in 2015.
PG.12
PG.16
PG.20
Discover the diversification 
of Drax Group, which 
enables us to source, 
generate and supply 
reliable, renewable and 
affordable electricity. 
Our sustainability policy is  
at the heart of our business. 
Read about our sustainability 
principles.
Group CEO, Dorothy Thompson 
shares Drax Group’s strategic 
direction in her overview  
of 2016.
PG.06
PG.36
02
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2016 was a pivotal year for Drax, marking the 
completion of the biomass transformation 
project which commenced in 2012, and the 
announcement of a new strategy to deliver 
long-term sustainable value. 
Against a background of low wholesale 
electricity prices, and a volatile and 
demanding environment for renewable 
energy providers, the Group has again 
delivered strong operational performance.
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE FROM A 
DIVERSIFIED BASE
In 2016 a key focus for the Board was the 
development of a new strategy for the Group, 
in order to ensure we are well placed to create 
long-term value across all three segments of 
the business: smart upstream sustainable 
pellet manufacturing, smart power generation 
and smart retail. 
Following a comprehensive review, initiated 
in 2015, the Group’s new strategy has been 
defined and is based on creating a more 
diversified earnings base that will produce 
higher-quality returns in the long term. 
Central to this strategy, Drax aims to play 
an increasing role in delivering a robust 
low-carbon energy system for the UK. 
We announced our new strategy to the 
market in December. Evidence of delivering  
on the new strategy can already be seen in 
the acquisition of Opus Energy and four 
projects to construct fast-response Open 
Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) generation plants. 
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND 
Our EBITDA for 2016 at £140 million was in 
line with our guidance, although below 2015 
(£169 million). This result principally reflects 
very challenging commodity markets and 
the removal of Climate Change Levy (CCL) 
exemptions. However, we were able to partly 
offset the impact of these factors with a 
focus on flexible system support, the prompt 
and balancing markets, ancillary services 
and improving retail margins, all of which are 
important parts of our strategy to develop 
broader, non-commodity exposed earnings.
In accordance with our dividend policy,  
the Board proposes to pay a final dividend in 
respect of 2016 of 0.4 pence per share, equal 
to £1.8 million. This would give total dividends 
for the year of £10 million (2015: £23 million).
Given the evolution at our business, the 
Board believes that it is appropriate to 
review our dividend policy. Discussions 
with our shareholders will take 
place in the first half of 2017.
GROUP STRATEGY
SMART SOURCING
 
– At least 20–30% 
biomass self-supply
 
– New biomass markets
SMART GENERATION
 
– Diversified generation 
and capacity
 
– Flexible, reliable 
operations and contract-
based revenues
SMART SUPPLY
 
– Profitable business  
with critical mass
HIGHER QUALITY DIVERSIFIED 
EARNINGS AND MANAGEMENT 
OF COMMODITY MARKET 
EXPOSURE
 
– Increased contractual and  
non-commodity related earnings
 
– Broader and more diversified 
earnings
TARGETING LONG-TERM GROWTH
 
– Identify opportunities for post-
2027 earnings
 
– Creating new opportunities in all 
the markets in which we operate
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
 
– Building on existing strengths
STRATEGIC REPORT
03
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY
The Government’s decision to apply the 
CCL to renewables continued to have a 
significant effect on our results, reducing 
EBITDA by an estimated £34 million in 2016. 
On a much more positive note, following 
an exhaustive and rigorous process, 
the European Commission approved 
our Contract for Difference (CfD).
2016 was a year of significant change for the 
UK Government, not least with the Brexit vote 
and its implications. Our strategy of long-
term hedging against currency fluctuations 
ensured we were protected against a negative 
impact on the cost of our predominantly US 
dollar and Euro denominated biomass supply.
A new Prime Minister, a newly created 
department in the Department for Business, 
Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), and 
changes to their respective teams mean new 
opportunities to make the case for further 
biomass upgrades at Drax. Our aim for the 
power station is to deliver 100% sustainable, 
renewable and reliable biomass generation. 
Continuing to demonstrate the affordability 
of biomass is also critical, and an independent 
report commissioned by Drax in early 2016 
showed that biomass is the lowest cost, scale, 
renewable generation available(1) – once total 
system costs have been accounted for.
CRITICAL ROLE TO PLAY IN THE 
ELECTRICITY MARKET 
Drax has a major role to play, not just 
producing electricity when it is needed, but 
also in securing the stability of the electricity 
grid. We are a generator that combines 
flexibility, reliability and sustainability. Our 
unique profile enables us to help National 
Grid provide power whenever it is needed. 
We renewed our contract with National 
Grid to provide support services, and there 
are clearly greater opportunities for Drax to 
support the UK energy system in the future. 
Drax’s four planned rapid-response OCGT 
plants have the potential to provide 
the flexible and reliable electricity 
that the UK’s homes and businesses 
will need in the years to come.
Changes in the retail energy market mean 
there are now greater opportunities 
for challenger brands to succeed. The 
acquisition of Opus Energy, with its strong 
track record of supplying power to small to 
medium-size businesses, will complement 
our existing offering from Haven Power, 
which is well established in the large 
commercial and industrial sector.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Drax remains committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance. 
The Board and its committees play an 
active role in guiding the Company and 
leading its strategy, which is why we are 
determined to ensure we have the right 
skillset to steer the Group forward. 
We are strong advocates of diversity – in 
terms of thinking, background and gender.
In the course of 2016, Melanie Gee left  
the Board. I would like to thank her for her 
years of commitment and service as a 
non-executive director. We are actively 
seeking new non-executive directors whose 
skills will help us determine and deliver our 
strategy for long-term value. In this context, 
retail and sustainability are our primary focus.
Full details of our corporate governance can 
be found on page 62.
OUR PEOPLE
Finally, I must thank all the employees and 
contractors who have worked so hard to 
help Drax succeed in the last 12 months. As I 
said, it has continued to be an extremely busy 
period for everyone across all of our business, 
yet our team has once again pulled together 
to help us meet all of those challenges. We 
are privileged to have colleagues from such 
a diverse range of backgrounds and skills.
What we all share is the determination to do 
things in a sustainable way, and to continue 
to help the UK reduce its carbon emissions 
while continuing to provide the power our 
country requires.
It only remains for me to say that your 
Board remains totally committed to the 
complementary aims of delivering sustainable 
long-term value for the Drax business, and 
of helping our country build a low-carbon 
future through smart energy solutions.
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
(1) nera.com/publications/archive/2016/NERA_Imperial_
Feb_2016_Renewable_Subsidies_and_Whole_System_
Costs_FINAL_160215.html
14.6TWH
Sold to business customers
65% 
Total of our electricity production 
generated from renewables
607,000 
TONNES
Compressed wood pellets produced 
DRAX IS WELL  
PLACED TO PROFIT 
FROM A CHANGING 
ELECTRICITY MARKET, 
AND TO DELIVER 
LONG-TERM, HIGH-
QUALITY DIVERSIFIED 
EARNINGS.
04
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Q&A WITH THE CEO
Group CEO, Dorothy Thompson, answers  
the key questions that have been put to  
her by shareholders in 2016.
Q. DO YOU THINK PERFORMANCE GOT 
BETTER OR WORSE IN 2016?
A. Financially, EBITDA was in line with 
our guidance, although below 2015. 
This principally reflects very challenging 
commodity markets and the removal of 
the Climate Change Levy exemption. 
We were able to partly offset the impact 
of these factors with a focus on flexible 
system support, in the prompt and balancing 
markets, ancillary services and improving 
retail profitability, all of which are important 
parts of our strategy to develop broader, 
non-commodity exposed earnings.
Operationally, 2016 was another good  
year across our business, but particularly  
in generation where the team completed  
a significant outage programme and on the 
regulatory front the European Commission’s 
approval of the CfD meant we could complete 
the final stages of the upgrade to our third 
biomass unit. 
Q. WHAT WERE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT 
CHANGES FOR THE GROUP IN 2016?
A. The most important change was the  
new Group strategy, which gives us all a 
very clear direction for the future and will 
see Drax become a broader business across 
our markets – pellet supply, generation and 
retail. The acquisition of Opus Energy will 
strengthen our retail offer, and our plans to 
build four rapid response gas power stations 
will plug the gaps at times of system stress.
The new Group strategy is underpinned by 
new people and IT strategies which are crucial 
to its successful delivery.
Haven Power has also seen significant change 
with the arrival of CEO Jonathan Kini. He, 
along with his team have been working to 
ensure we are well placed to continue 
growing and to boost our retail offer with 
the recent acquisition of Opus.
Q. HOW DO YOU THINK 2017 WILL BE 
DIFFERENT TO 2016?
A. The focus will be on continuing to deliver 
good performance right across the Group, but 
there will also be changes as we work closely 
with the Opus team to ensure we create 
the best possible retail offer for the UK’s 
SMEs. Drax Power will be progressing the 
OCGT gas projects, and it will be an exciting 
year for Drax Biomass as they look to secure 
acquisitions of pellet mills and opportunities 
to export compressed word pellets to other 
markets. Everyone across the Group will see 
further evidence of the new strategy roll-out, 
particularly in the form of the people and 
IT strategies.
Q HOW DOES DIVERSIFYING INTO GAS FIT 
WITH YOUR AIM TO REPLACE COAL WITH 
RENEWABLE GENERATION AT DRAX? 
A. It complements it perfectly. The European 
Commission’s approval of the CfD enabled us 
to complete the upgrade of half the power 
station to run on compressed wood pellets in 
place of coal and in 2016, 65% of the electricity 
we generated at Drax was renewable. 
The job is not yet done, and with the right 
conditions we will upgrade the remaining coal 
units. We can do this in just two to three years, 
when the conditions are right.
The planned gas power stations will not be 
run to produce baseload power, but as rapid 
response units to plug the gaps at times of 
system stress, for example when wind and 
solar fail to contribute what’s required.  
They will also be part of a solution that  
can accelerate the end of coal in the UK.
Q. CAN YOU EXPLAIN THE ACQUISITION OF 
OPUS? WOULDN’T IT HAVE MADE MORE 
SENSE TO GROW HAVEN?
A. We acquired Haven in 2009 when it 
was an SME focused business. Since then 
the business has grown significantly by 
principally focusing on the I&C market to 
provide a route to market for around half the 
electricity Drax Power produces, although 
it retains a relatively small SME presence.
Opus – like Haven – is a challenger business 
and brings with it 265,000 customer metered 
sites, largely SMEs. Opus also supplies gas, 
STRATEGIC REPORT
05
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
which for the first time will see us having the 
ability to provide a dual fuel offer, something 
that is vital for many SMEs.
Opus gives us immediate scale in the SME 
market and we think the complementary 
nature of the Haven and Opus models can 
provide a compelling challenger retail 
proposition for our customers.
Q. HAVE YOU GOT THE RIGHT TEAM 
AND SYSTEMS IN PLACE TO ENSURE  
THAT OPUS WILL JOIN THE GROUP  
WITH MINIMAL DISRUPTION?
A. Yes, Jonathan Kini, who leads our retail 
business has a great depth of experience 
in SME markets and integration. He has 
strengthened his team to ensure we 
have the expertise required to make 
this a very successful transition as Opus 
becomes a member of the Drax family.
However, I’m in no way complacent about the 
challenges, that’s why we developed a plan 
to embed Opus covering everything from IT 
to communications. It’s vital we get this right 
and that our new colleagues become part of 
delivering our new Group strategy and share 
in our values. Clearly I also want both Haven 
and Opus customers to continue experiencing 
high levels of service along with the benefits 
of a more comprehensive retail offer.
Q. HOW IS DRAX POWER DIFFERENT TO 
WHEN YOU JOINED?
A. In many ways Drax is now a very different 
place to what it was when I joined Drax more 
than ten years ago. The fact that in 2016 65% 
of our output was renewable is something 
I’m very proud of, and right across the power 
station you can actually see the difference 
that using compressed wood pellets has 
made: huge storage domes, specially designed 
train wagons, and a visitor centre and guides 
explaining the latest chapter in the Drax story.
Essentially today the power station operates 
as two power stations: a reliable, flexible, 
renewable generator producing electricity 
for businesses and homes and a fossil fuel 
generator providing system support and 
security of supply.
Q. YOU HAVE HIGHLIGHTED THE ROLE THAT 
DRAX COAL UNITS CAN PLAY IN SYSTEM 
SUPPORT AND ANCILLARY SERVICES – 
WHAT IS THIS AND WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
A. Increasing levels of intermittent renewables 
and inflexible nuclear present the grid with a 
challenge, and for Drax, opportunities.
When the grid needs capacity our coal units 
have the flexibility to turn on and off, and 
ramp up and down responding to demand 
as weather and time of day determine the 
availability of wind and solar. It is already 
common place for Drax to “two-shift” the 
coal units; using them to provide flexible, 
responsive power, rather than baseload. 
But it’s not just about generation – 
a well-functioning grid needs other 
services too. 2017 will see Drax seeking 
further opportunities to provide the 
electricity grid with this increasingly 
important system support.
Q. DID THE RESULT OF THE UK’S EU 
REFERENDUM HAVE ANY IMPACT  
ON THE BUSINESS?
A. Our business model is largely unaffected 
by the decision to leave the EU. We will 
continue to generate and sell power in 
the UK. We purchase a significant amount 
of the fuel we require in foreign currency 
and our long-term hedging strategy – five 
years ahead – has protected us against 
any negative impacts of exchange rate 
fluctuations for the medium-term.
Q. HAS THE CHANGE IN THE UK 
GOVERNMENT RESULTED IN ANY 
DIFFERENT SIGNALS BEING SENT  
OUT TO THE RENEWABLES SECTOR?
A. I think that still remains to be seen. We 
have to look at the huge changes that 
have happened in Government since the 
EU referendum as a potential opportunity 
for us as we continue to make the case for 
investment in further biomass upgrades. 
What is clear is that the focus is still very 
much on affordable energy. In 2016, 
Imperial College London and the economic 
consultancy NERA published new research 
that we commissioned. It showed that when 
whole system costs are factored in biomass 
is the cheapest large scale renewable 
technology. If Government applied this 
method of support to future CfD auctions, 
consumers could benefit by up to £2.2 billion.
As we take forward our new strategy 
we will also be clearly communicating 
our plans for rapid response gas 
power stations and how the system 
support they will provide contributes to 
decarbonising the UK’s energy system.
Q. WHAT ARE THE LATEST PLANS TO 
CONVERT THE REMAINING GENERATING 
UNITS THAT RUN ON COAL?
A. We have now delivered on our original 
strategy to upgrade three generating 
units to run on compressed wood pellets. 
However, we would like to do more, and have 
consistently said that with the right conditions 
we stand ready to convert further units.
The transformation we’ve been through has 
meant we’ve learnt a huge amount over the 
last few years, and there’s no doubt that for 
future upgrades we can carry them out 
quicker and more cost-effectively.
Q. WHY DO YOU THINK QUESTIONS 
AROUND THE SUSTAINABILITY OF  
BIOMASS CONTINUE TO BE RAISED?
A. I think many companies involved in the 
sourcing and supply of sustainable products 
will face questions in this area. What we will 
do is continue to be open and honest about 
all aspects of how our business operates 
including sustainability. Much of that 
evidence can be seen in this annual report, 
from our own stringent sustainability policy, 
to how we comply with the UK Government’s 
sustainability legislation criteria.
However, we are never complacent and for 
example each new pellet supplier to Drax is 
fully and independently audited before a 
contract is signed and our existing suppliers 
are audited at least once every three years.
Q. WHICH OTHER BUSINESS ROLES DO  
YOU HAVE OUTSIDE OF DRAX AND HOW  
DO THEY HELP THE GROUP?
A. I’m a non-executive director at the 
Eaton Corporation and also the Court of 
the Bank of England. I think it’s important 
to have roles outside the business, as 
long as they allow you to get the balance 
right and these do. So, clearly they should 
in no way be a distraction from the “day 
job”, but worth an investment of time that 
allows you to see how others operate and 
whether there are lessons that we can 
learn or best practice that we can adopt. 
Q. WHAT’S THE FEELING AROUND THE 
BOARD TABLE?
A. I’d say it’s one of excitement at the 
opportunities our new Group strategy and 
acquisitions present for the future. While 
there’s obviously satisfaction that we’ve 
delivered on what we initially set out to 
do – upgrade three generating units to 
run on compressed wood pellets, there 
is certainly no feeling of “job done”.
In the months ahead the Board will rightly 
want to see clear and positive progress as we 
work to boost our retail offer through Opus 
Energy and develop our plans to build four 
rapid response gas power stations.
06
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
2016 began with some of the most challenging 
power and commodity markets I have seen in 
my career and in a similar way to 2015 this 
created a headwind to profitability.
Operationally, performance across the Group 
has been good. 
The strong operational performance 
across our business helped us to respond 
to the financial challenge posed by the 
difficult commodity markets and the 
removal of CCL exemptions. This enabled 
us to deliver EBITDA for 2016 at £140 
million, in line with our guidance, but still 
below 2015 (£169 million). There is more 
detail on our financial performance in the 
Group Financial Review on page 50.
In response to the challenging commodity 
market conditions we evolved the operation 
of our coal units to provide increasingly 
important flexible system support 
services to the power grid, whilst at the 
same time our biomass units delivered a 
record level of renewable electricity.
In the US our pellet plants operated well. 
During the year we used the flexibility 
of self-supply to manage production 
to allow the Group to benefit from 
attractively priced biomass cargoes 
in the short-term spot market.
In Retail, Haven Power has delivered a good 
performance with volumes at scale and 
improved gross margin.
2016 was also a year of completion and 
delivery for Drax Group. 
PURPOSE
HOW
To help change the way energy 
is generated, supplied and used 
for a better future.
By providing inspiring, flexible 
energy solutions that make a 
difference to customers.
STRATEGIC REPORT
07
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
In December the European Commission 
granted state aid approval for the Contract for 
Difference (CfD) to support the upgrade of our 
third generating unit at Drax Power Station 
to produce electricity from sustainable 
compressed wood pellets. That same month 
we completed the upgrade works and 
started producing 100% renewable power 
from the unit. This marked the final stage of 
our biomass transformation project which 
we have been implementing since 2012.
The transformation extends right across 
our supply chain. From the working forests 
of the Southern US to ports in the UK, it 
extends right through to the millions of 
homes and businesses across the UK that 
use the renewable power we produce.
In 2016 we produced 16% of the UK’s 
renewable electricity from sustainable 
wood pellets. In total, we produce 
enough electricity to power Sheffield, 
Leeds, Liverpool and Manchester 
together. We stand ready to do more.
Through our retail business we supplied 7.5% 
of electricity required by UK businesses, 
whilst our pellet supply business produced 
607,000 tonnes of compressed wood pellets.
According to a study published by Oxford 
Economics in 2016 (Draximpact.co.uk), 
Drax’s total economic impact – including 
our supply chain and the wages our staff 
and suppliers’ staff spend in the wider 
consumer economy was £1.2 billion, 
supporting 14,150 jobs across the UK. 
MARKET OVERVIEW
The markets in which we operated were 
dominated by three major trends in 2016:
1. A tipping point for UK electricity
Firstly, the electricity market in Britain has 
now passed a tipping point. Until recently, 
intermittent generators such as wind and 
solar power have played a relatively small 
role in the electricity system. They are now 
playing an ever more significant role and the 
electricity system needs to adjust accordingly.
Britain now has 26GW of wind and solar 
installed – a six-fold increase over the last 
six years, and biomass has almost doubled 
its output since 2014 to over 14TWH. 
Coal, which in the past has played a 
critical role in system stability and security 
contributed just 9.3% of Britain’s electricity 
during 2016 – down from 42% in 2012.
Of course, these changes represent good 
news from the point of view of creating a 
low-carbon energy future. But they also 
create an increased need for flexible and 
responsive solutions to ensure stability 
and security of electricity supply for the 
UK’s homes and businesses. This offers a 
major opportunity for Drax to provide more 
support services to the network in the areas 
of security of supply and system stability. 
2. The growth of challenger brands in the 
retail market
Secondly, in the retail electricity marketplace, 
2016 has seen a continued growth of 
challenger brands. It also saw the conclusion 
of a very important report from the 
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
on the electricity market. This concluded 
that both the wholesale energy market and 
the business retail market are working well, 
with the exception of some concerns about 
micro-businesses. The CMA did conclude that 
concerns remain about the domestic retail 
market. Their recommendations focused 
on how consumers could get better deals.
3. Stress on wood pellet prices
Meanwhile the wood pellet market has 
suffered from a significant excess of supply 
over demand. This follows three warm winters 
in Europe where there is a large market for 
wood pellets for heating. Consequently, 
demand in this market has been depressed 
and many pellet producers have struggled 
to find customers for their output.
However, against this backdrop, there 
has been increased interest in biomass 
generation, particularly in the Netherlands 
and Japan with parallel policy developments 
expected to support more biomass 
generation. So, although the market 
has been severely stressed by excess 
supply, it is expected that demand for 
biomass will increase in future years.
PG.24
Marketplace review
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
In 2016 we have been working against a 
background of significant political change 
in the UK. In general, the Brexit vote did not 
affect us because our electricity is used in 
UK homes and businesses. We purchase 
large quantities of fuel in foreign currency. 
However, we are well hedged against 
currency fluctuations for the next five years 
including the devaluation of Sterling in 2016.
2016 saw a reduction in our dependency 
on commodity-related earnings. A growing 
proportion of our earnings are now based 
on system support, pellet supply and retail 
sales, rather than pure commodity spread 
earnings from generating electricity. 
This will be even more evident in 2017, 
as a third of our biomass generation is 
supported under a CfD, which is not subject 
to movements in commodity prices. 
IN 2016 WE 
PRODUCED 16% OF 
THE UK’S RENEWABLE 
ELECTRICITY FROM 
SUSTAINABLE WOOD 
PELLETS. WE STAND 
READY TO DO MORE.
14,150
Jobs supported by Drax  
across the UK
CfD Strike Prices Including System
Integration Costs
£84
MWh
£96
MWh
£92–97
MWh
£127
MWh
Prices based on lowest successful bids for each technology in 
the 2015 CfD auction. Biomass price based on conservative 
15% discount on 2013 strike price and 15 year contract.
140
105
70
35
0
Biomass
Solar
Onshore
wind
Offshore
wind
08
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
SO WHICH TECHNOLOGIES ARE 
ACTUALLY THE MOST AFFORDABLE?
If biomass were allowed to 
compete in upcoming renewable 
auctions on a whole system cost 
basis, it would clearly be the 
cheapest technology.
The UK Government continues to be clear 
that affordability of energy is a priority. 
We commissioned research from Imperial 
College London and economic consultancy 
NERA to look at the affordability of biomass by 
factoring in whole system costs – essentially 
the hidden costs of power generation required 
to flex up and down to meet demand created 
by intermittent renewables. When these 
costs are built in biomass is seen to be the 
best value large scale renewable technology. 
If these new levels of support were to be 
reflected in the Government’s planned energy 
auctions, the mix of generation that could 
win contracts is shown to save consumers 
up to £2.2 billion over a 15 year period.
SUSTAINABILITY
We apply robust and thorough sustainability 
standards in all of our biomass sourcing. 
Since 2008 we have used external experts 
to independently verify our compliance 
with these stringent standards. In 2015 
the Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) 
introduced the first sustainability 
certification system, including full life 
cycle analysis, for woody biomass. 
We are very pleased that in 2016 the 
SBP fully certified both our compressed 
wood pellet manufacturing plants.
Because sustainability is so central to our 
business, we are also delighted to report that 
carbon emissions from the generation of 
electricity at Drax Power Station fell by 53%(1) 
in 2016, partially driven by replacement of coal 
with biomass.
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The health and safety of all our employees 
and contractors is of paramount importance 
to Drax. The Group delivered a world-leading 
performance in 2016. Overall, this has been 
our best year since 2012. It is especially 
pleasing given that it was delivered against a 
backdrop of an intense schedule of planned 
maintenance on our generating units during 
the year which resulted in man hours worked 
being nearly five million across the Group.
Safety remains at the centre of our operational 
philosophy and we are continuing to work to 
improve our performance across the Group.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Drax Biomass 
2016 was a year characterised by flexible 
operations at Drax Biomass, curtailing 
production for a time to enable the Group to 
capture value in the distressed wood pellet 
spot market. Both our pellet plants are now 
working at full capacity and delivering pellets 
of good quality.
In 2016 we continued to work on optimising 
production from both pellet plants and 
identified the opportunity for making low cost, 
incremental capital investment which will 
increase the capacity of each of the facilities 
from 450,000 tonnes to 525,000 tonnes. We 
will make this investment in 2017 and deliver 
the increased capacity by the end of the year.
(1) See table 1 on pg. 42
17%
Increased capacity at our 
pellet plants by the end of 2017
PG.28
Drax Biomass review
PG.36
Sustainability review
STRATEGIC REPORT
09
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Well established Safety Management Systems (SMS) are 
used to deliver safe places to work for all our teams. In Drax 
Power the SMS is certified to OHSAS 18001 and subject to 
regular compliance reviews, the last of which took place 
during 2016. In Drax Biomass the SMS is designed to be 
compatible with OHSAS 18001 and the United States 
certification ANSI Z10.
Safety performance is reported and reviewed regularly by 
local management teams, the Executive Committee and 
the Board. Each incident is comprehensively analysed and 
reviewed, lessons learnt are shared with employees and 
actions are taken to mitigate against future failures. 
For the Group the Board received monthly reports which 
include Lost Time Injury Rates (LTIR), Total Recordable Injury 
Rates (TRIR) and numbers of RIDDORs (or US equivalent). 
The TRIR is included in the Group Scorecard (shown on 
page 98). 
Performance on each KPI during the year was positive,  
with results better than targets. The results are shown  
in the table below.
2016
Actual 
2016
Target
2015
 Actual
LTIR
0.02
0.10
0.05
TRIR
0.22
0.35
0.31
RIDDOR
4
6
2
LTIR is calculated by summing fatalities and lost time injuries per  
100,000 hours worked.
TRIR is calculated by summing fatalities, lost time injuries and medical  
treatment injuries per 100,000 hours worked.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The health, safety and welfare of employees 
continues to be the highest priority across the 
Group. Each business unit and corporate team 
has local arrangements in place, appropriate to 
the operating environment and hazards inherent 
in the various workplaces, to ensure that high 
standards are set and maintained.
10
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Drax Power
In 2016, 65% of our electricity was generated 
from sustainable compressed wood pellets.
Of the much smaller proportion of our 
electricity generated by coal, the vast 
majority was used to fill the gaps when 
additional capacity or flexibility was 
needed by the grid. All of our generating 
units at Drax are flexible, dispatchable, and 
responsive, making them ideal to adapt to 
the changing needs of the market, and to fill 
the gaps created by the increasing amount 
of intermittent renewable generation.
The future of our coal units remain uncertain. 
The Government published a consultation in 
November 2016 requesting views on whether 
conditions should be put in place requiring 
all coal power stations to close by 2025.
In 2016, Drax participated once again in the 
capacity market. While we are prohibited 
from doing this with our biomass units we 
did bid in two of our three coal units. Both 
units succeeded in securing a contract 
worth £13.6 million per unit per year for 
2020/21. We elected not to bid for our third 
coal unit, as with the right conditions, we 
remain committed to upgrading further 
coal units to biomass. Had we bid in the 
capacity market, this would not have 
been possible in a timely manner.
PG.30
Drax Power review
Haven Power
In 2015, Haven achieved the scale of business 
which we were targeting for market access 
for renewable products and power. 
The focus for 2016 has been to design a 
strategy that would deliver attractive levels 
of profitability at that scale. This strategy 
is focused on rebalancing our portfolio of 
sales to increase the number of small and 
medium-sized enterprise (SME) customers 
in our portfolio compared to those from large 
industrial and commercial (I&C) businesses. 
PG.34
Haven Power review
With a new leadership team in place, 
Haven is now well placed to become a 
more nimble, agile business, embracing 
change and providing intelligent 
energy solutions for its customers.
Billington Bioenergy
For our wood pellet business Billington, 
2016 was a year of uncertainty as the 
Government reviewed its policy for renewable 
heat across the UK. The new Renewable 
Heat Incentive tariff rates were finally 
confirmed in December, at a level that 
should support steady growth in biomass 
heating for both domestic properties 
and larger commercial scale plants.
Against this backdrop Billington continued 
to deliver a steady performance and has 
developed an attractive new strategy to grow 
the business at the scale and rate required 
to play a significant role in the Group.
OUR NEW STRATEGY
We announced the Group’s new strategy in 
December 2016. It reflects our determination 
to continue playing a vital role in the way 
energy is generated, supplied and used as 
the UK moves to a low carbon future. 
It is designed to help us deliver a 
stronger, more predictable, long-term 
financial performance for the Group 
along with greater diversification in 
the markets in which we operate.
In December we also made it clear how 
we would start delivering the strategy. 
We announced our proposed acquisition 
of business-to-business energy supplier 
Opus Energy along with that of a project to 
build four new rapid response Open Cycle 
Gas Turbines (OCGT) power stations.
The Opus acquisition was a major 
transaction and was subject to shareholder 
approval. The acquisition was approved 
by shareholders on 8 February 2017 and 
completed on the 10 February 2017.
Acquiring Opus is directly in line with our 
strategy of expanding our retail activities 
into the SME marketplace where it is already 
very successful as a challenger brand. 
Opus has a well-established business as a 
dual fuel supplier, enabling us to supply gas 
as well as electricity to end users, which is 
critical to succeeding in the SME market.
As the UK has now passed the tipping point 
where intermittent renewable generation 
plays a significant role in the electricity 
market, more rapid response power plants 
are required to keep the system stable. 
This is exactly what the four 299MW 
OCGT plants we are planning to develop 
and build are designed to do. Two could 
be generating electricity as early as 
2020/21, and the others by 2023/24. Each 
is capable of reaching full capacity in just 
10 minutes – one third of the time taken 
by a conventional gas plant, enabling them 
to “fill gaps” whenever they might arise.
This capability for rapid response generation 
can enable Drax to play a vital supporting role 
in the UK’s transition to secure low-carbon 
electricity which is cost-effective and reliable. 
Our intention is only to go ahead with 
building these plants if we can secure 
an attractive capacity contract to 
provide the base revenues required. 
Similarly, we have also announced our 
intention to expand our sustainable 
compressed wood pellet production 
operations to support self-supply of at least 
20–30%. This will require a capacity of at 
least 2 million tonnes per annum, double 
our current capacity. However, we will only 
move forward with this expansion if we 
identify attractive opportunities, including 
the potential acquisition of financially 
distressed pellet plants in the US.
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
STRATEGY ENABLERS
The first key enabler is our new people 
strategy. We are nothing without our people, 
and our greatest challenge will be further 
developing the excellence, talent and skill sets 
of the teams to ensure the successful delivery 
of our new strategy across all our businesses, 
including our recent acquisitions. That is the 
driving force behind our new people strategy, 
which is outlined on page 45 of this report.
The second key enabler is our new IT 
strategy which will deliver a step-change 
in the way we work across the Group. 
It will not only transform our day to day 
ways of working, making us more efficient, 
but also improve our analytic capacity 
and create a digital capability that will 
put data at the heart of all our work.
OUTLOOK
Our focus in 2017 is on delivering the 
new strategy whilst continuing to deliver 
excellence across the base business. 
For Retail the year ahead will see Haven and 
Opus working closely together to deliver 
a compelling offer to the UK’s businesses. 
The two businesses complement each other 
perfectly, and two challenger brands will 
between them offer expertise and experience 
in supplying gas and electricity to both small 
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and 
industrial and commercial customers (I&Cs).
There is a clear focus on embedding Opus 
into the Group. This is based on recognising 
the fact that the key to our future success 
together will be continuing to enable the 
Opus team to develop their skills and share 
their best practice across the Drax family.
For Drax Biomass the focus will be on 
quality and stability for existing capacity, 
low cost expansion at existing plants 
and, where available, targeting low cost 
acquisition of operating pellet plants and 
identifying possible opportunities to supply 
compressed wood pellets to new markets.
In our Generation business we will continue 
to deliver renewable electricity that is 
reliable and responsive through our biomass 
units. With the right conditions, we will 
begin conversion of three more units to 
run on compressed wood pellets. We see 
our coal units as playing an important role 
in system stability and capacity support. 
And we will work on the development of 
our four rapid-response OCGT plants with 
the firm intention of committing to further 
investment as soon as the UK capacity 
market clears at a price that provides a 
robust underpinning for such investment.
Having taken the first steps in developing 
our new strategy, we will continue to 
look for opportunities to further enhance 
and build on it, ensuring we play an even 
greater role in delivering the secure and 
stable supply of low-carbon, reliable and 
affordable electricity the UK needs.
Dorothy Thompson
Chief Executive, Drax Group
2017 PRIORITIES
BIOMASS FUEL AND SUPPLY
PELLET SUPPLY OPPORTUNITIES
 
– Targeting 20–30% self-supply
 
–  Evaluating opportunities to acquire 
distressed assets
 
– Attractive financial returns
RETAIL
OPUS ENERGY
 
– Acceleration of retail strategy
 
– Platform for growth
 
–  Compatible and complementary  
to existing retail business
 
–  Advances transition to broader, 
higher quality long-term earnings
 
– Synergy potential
 
– Attractive financial returns
GENERATION
OCGT DEVELOPMENTS
 
– Capacity and flexibility support
 
– Using core competencies
 
– New long-term generation earnings
 
– Market opportunities in peak price periods
 
– Diversified generation mix
 
– Attractive financial returns
CORPORATE  
CENTRES OF 
EXCELLENCE 
ENABLING  
VALUE
12
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SMART SOURCING
Reliable, renewable and affordable electricity 
begins with sustainable sourcing. Drax’s biomass 
supply chain reaches deep into the expansive 
working forests of the Southern United States. 
These forests provide an abundant supply of low-grade wood, including thinnings 
and harvesting residues that have previously been underutilised by the forest 
products industry. We transform this material into high-quality, sustainable 
compressed wood pellets that are helping the UK to decarbonise.
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Since the early 1950s, forest stocks in the US South have 
increased by 107% (5 billion cubic metres) within a stable total 
forested area (99 million ha in 2012). This increase is driven by 
improved forest management and a robust forest products 
industry, encouraging landowners to reinvest in their working 
forests. These landowners provide Drax with a ready supply of 
sustainably grown and harvested wood that we transform into 
high-quality compressed pellets. We bolster the market for 
low-grade and underutilised wood in areas that have suffered 
from a decline in the pulp and paper industry.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS:
 
– Our pellet manufacturing facilities in Mississippi and Louisiana achieved 
significant operational gains this year, increasing total production by  
118% to 607,000 tonnes in 2016, and achieving record daily and monthly 
production levels.
 
– Our storage and loading facility dispatched 11 ships to the UK, including  
our first-ever Panamax vessel carrying over 61,000 tonnes. Bulk shipping 
cost-effectively reduces transportation-related carbon emissions.
 
– Both pellet facilities achieved certification under the Sustainable Biomass 
Program (SBP) – the foremost industry standard demonstrating that 
biomass is legally and sustainability sourced.
OUR AIMS AND OBJECTIVES:
 
– We aim to increase pellet manufacturing capacity to at least 1,050,000 
tonnes per year through engineering improvements at our existing facilities 
and investment in new facilities.
 
– We aim to supply Drax Power Station with 20–30% of annual demand for 
wood pellets.
 
– We aim to provide new customers in other regions with a dependable supply 
of high-quality, sustainable wood pellets.
LOCATIONS
Drax Biomass is headquartered in Atlanta, 
Georgia, and operates two facilities in 
Louisiana and Mississippi. Morehouse 
BioEnergy near Bastrop, Louisiana and 
Amite BioEnergy in Gloster, Mississippi, 
produce a steady supply of high-quality 
wood pellets, shipped to the UK through 
our Baton Rouge transit storage and 
loading facility in Port Allen, Louisiana. 
4
key sites in the US
85
90
100
95
105
US South Forest Area
Area Ha (million) 
 
1920
1977
1940
1987
1953
1997
1963
2007 2012
Source: USDA Forest Service
0
1952
1962
1976
1986
2011
2014
1996
2006
50
100
150
200
250
US South, growth vs removals
Million tonnes
Growth
Removals
Note: 
Original data converted to dry tonnes using an 
assumed moisture content of 50%.
Source: USDA Forest Service
14
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SMART SOURCING / DRAX BIOMASS
AN INNOVATIVE, TECHNOLOGY-LED APPROACH
Drax Biomass sources raw materials from working 
forests that supply a diverse range of wood-based 
manufacturing. The largest, most valuable stems – 
sawlogs – are typically sold to sawmills for use in 
the construction industry.
We take the least valuable wood, including small-diameter thinnings 
removed early in a working forest’s life cycle, to improve productivity of the 
remaining trees. We also use tops, low-grade wood and other by-products 
from harvesting operations, along with wood chips, shavings and sawdust 
from other wood-based manufacturing facilities.
GROWING VALUE AND FORESTS 
We help revitalise communities which have 
lost jobs in traditional industries, including 
pulp and paper. We support local landowners 
through steady and dependable demand 
for their low-grade wood. Without such a 
market, much of this low-grade timber might 
go unused. Other material, such as thinnings, 
may not be harvested at all, and reduce a 
stand’s health, productivity and capacity 
to produce valuable sawtimber. This would 
lead to less income for landowners and 
less incentive to reinvest in, or retain, their 
working forests. Strong markets are critical to 
long-term forest growth, a relationship that is 
clear to see in the US South where harvests 
increased by over 46% during the same period 
in which total inventory grew by 107%. 
LESS MOISTURE LEADS TO LESS 
EMISSIONS IN TRANSPORT
Water makes up roughly 50% of a tree’s 
weight, so reducing the moisture level makes 
our transportation process more efficient. 
The pellets we produce are very dense, so 
we can squeeze more mass – and energy – 
into a rail car, lorry or cargo vessel, avoiding 
unnecessary carbon dioxide emissions. 
A STRATEGIC HUB
Our storage and loading facility at the 
Port of Greater Baton Rouge is a strategic 
hub for Drax Biomass and our customers. 
Our two 40,000 tonne storage domes 
can handle pellets from our own mills, 
from approved third-party suppliers as 
well as from new capacity that comes 
online through our growth strategy. 
Pellets are unloaded and transferred to 
the domes through a system of conveyors 
and transport towers, then moved to a 
ship loader to finish the process. This 
can handle more than 15,000 tonnes of 
pellets per day, so we can load a cargo 
vessel in as little as three days. 
By locating our storage and loading facility 
at a deepwater port, Drax Biomass can 
use larger cargo vessels to minimise our 
transportation-related carbon dioxide 
emissions. In December 2016, we shipped 
our first-ever Panamax vessel loaded 
with over 61,000 tonnes of pellets.
81M
dry tonnes of surplus wood 
in the US South. The forests 
we work with in the US have 
206 million dry tonnes of 
annual growth set alongside 
126 million dry tonnes 
harvested, resulting in a 
significant surplus availability
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
FOR MORE SUSTAINABILITY 
STORIES VISIT DRAX.COM
Drax Biomass is committed to continually  
reviewing and improving our sourcing practices.  
This includes working with local stakeholders to  
identify areas of unique ecological value, and to  
implement additional protections to ensure our  
operations don’t adversely impact those areas.
In 2016, for example, we unveiled a collaboration with  
the Atchafalaya Basinkeeper, a local environmental  
organisation dedicated to protecting the Atchafalaya  
Basin – a vast system of bayous and forested wetlands  
in South-Central Louisiana that is home to a diverse array of  
animals, birds and other wildlife. This collaboration centred  
on a set of sourcing commitments designed to protect the  
Basin and other similarly important ecosystems while  
allowing the wood pellet industry to operate.
SUSTAINABILITY
PROTECTING 
NATURAL TREASURES
WE WORK WITH 
LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS TO 
ENSURE OUR OPERATIONS 
DON’T ADVERSELY IMPACT 
IMPORTANT AREAS.
16
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SMART GENERATION
Drax Power Station generates 7% of the UK’s electricity. 
We are the largest power station in the UK, and also the 
UK’s largest single site renewable generator, producing 
16% of the country’s renewable electricity. 
We have successfully completed our strategy to upgrade three of our generating 
units to be powered by compressed wood pellets rather than coal and received 
our Contract for Difference (CfD). We stand ready to do more. Our new strategy 
has set out how we intend to complement our current generation capacity with 
new rapid response gas projects. We will continue to produce reliable, flexible and 
lower-carbon electricity and help secure stability of supply for the whole country. 
Port access
Power station
OCGT 
development sites
STRATEGIC REPORT
17
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Drax Power plays a key role in ensuring the security 
of the UK’s energy supply, now and in the future. 
We currently generate 7% of the UK’s total 
electricity at Drax Power Station. In 2016, 65%  
of this came from biomass. We plan to generate 
electricity using Open Cycle Gas Turbines (OCGTs) 
at four new sites in England and Wales.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS
 
– We have developed a whole new technology to upgrade 
three of our generating units to be powered by compressed 
wood pellets and received clearance for our CfD.
 
– 65% of our production was generated from biomass in 2016.
 
– We have renewed contracts to supply ancillary services 
systems support.
 
– We have reduced NOx emissions by 53% compared with 
2015 and complied with the Industrial Emissions Directive.
OUR AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
 
– We will diversify our energy generation, adding the 
potential for more than 1GW of rapid-response OCGT 
generation at four sites in England and Wales.
 
– We will seek further efficiencies at the power station and 
throughout the supply chain in order to improve margins.
 
– We will reduce maintenance costs by £10 million this 
year during our planned outage programme on one of our 
coal units.
 
– We will use our unique flexibility and reliability to provide 
more system support services to National Grid.
 
– We stand ready to upgrade more of our generating units  
to be powered by compressed wood pellets.
Drax Power Station is located in Selby, North 
Yorkshire and is connected directly to the national 
distribution grid, and to the rail network. 
The power station consists of six generating units. 
Three of these run on compressed wood pellets 
and three use coal. Our four planned rapid response 
gas generating sites in England and Wales will each 
have the capacity to produce 299MW of electricity.
7%
of the UK’s electricity is generated 
by our six generating units
18
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SMART GENERATION / DRAX POWER
WORLD-LEADING BIOMASS TECHNOLOGY
Drax Power Station is home to some of the 
UK’s most advanced generating technology. 
Much was developed by our in-house 
engineering team in order to upgrade three 
of the generating units, enabling them to  
be powered with compressed wood pellets. 
We continue to lead the way in reliable, 
renewable generation at significant scale.
GENERATION UPGRADE STRATEGY 
DELIVERED
2016 saw the full conversion of the third 
generating unit to be powered by sustainable 
biomass pellets rather than coal. This 
means half the power station has now been 
upgraded to produce renewable electricity. 
It also saw the European Commission 
clear our CfD under rules for state aid, 
meaning the original upgrade strategy is 
now complete. Our team of engineers and 
those of the many partners who helped us 
deliver this strategy can rightly be proud 
of what is an enormous achievement.
We are now the UK’s largest single site 
renewable generator. We remain convinced 
that upgrading existing coal-fired plant to 
be powered by compressed wood pellets is 
the most effective, efficient way to remove 
coal from the system altogether, and that it 
is the approach that will come at the lowest 
cost to the consumer and the taxpayer. In 
2016 we commissioned new research from 
Imperial College London and economic 
consultancy NERA to look at the comparative 
affordability of biomass. The research 
assessed renewable technologies on a whole 
system costs basis and found biomass to be 
the most cost-effective large scale option.
At Drax we stand ready to upgrade 
more of our capacity. 
CLEANER ELECTRICITY
65% of our output in 2016 was generated 
using sustainable biomass pellets, making 
our electricity this year the cleanest it has 
ever been. As well as reducing carbon 
emissions by at least 80% when compared 
with coal, this electricity was also generated 
with 53% less NOx emissions than in the 
previous year thanks to a major investment 
in new technology at the plant.
SEEKING FURTHER EFFICIENCIES
Now that we have proved the viability 
of large-scale upgrades to biomass, our 
challenge is to improve the efficiency of the 
entire biomass supply chain, particularly 
following the recent movements in the 
exchange rate between the US dollar 
and the pound sterling. We are strongly 
hedged against further depreciation 
in sterling until 2021, but greater 
efficiency will help us even more.
SUCCEEDING IN CHALLENGING CONDITIONS
These successes have been achieved 
against a background of very challenging 
conditions at the power station. Five out 
of six generating units have required 
significant work, and employees and 
contractors have carried out over four 
and a half million hours of work on site.
Some of this work has been enormously 
demanding. Drax may well be the only 
power station to have replaced the entire 
main steam pipework system on one of its 
boilers within the lifetime of the plant itself.
There have also been some unplanned 
events, but we have successfully 
managed our biomass supply chain and 
adjusted to meet these challenges.
WE HAVE NEARLY 
HALVED OUR 
CARBON EMISSIONS, 
MAKING US EUROPE’S 
SINGLE LARGEST 
DECARBONISATION 
PROJECT.
19.6TWH
Generated during 2016
6.6M
Tonnes of biomass used
2.7M
Tonnes of coal used
STRATEGIC REPORT
19
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
THE FUTURE OF COAL GENERATION 
AT DRAX
We will continue to invest in coal generation at 
the power station, but on a case-by-case basis 
depending on the return on investment and 
clearly we do this against the background of 
the Government’s aim to remove coal from the 
system by 2025. We have deferred a planned 
outage on unit 6. We see limited running on 
this unit over the summer months because 
we have two other coal units to provide 
system support and therefore deferring the 
outage should not impact its operation.
SYSTEM SUPPORT SERVICES
Drax Power has identified a growing need for 
system support services and is very pleased 
to have signed ancillary services contracts, 
at the power station. In 2016 the flexibility 
and responsiveness of our coal-fired units 
was used in the energy market, by running 
summer overnights to provide system 
support. Our coal units have also provided 
much-needed services in the winter market 
when capacity is tighter. Our policy of not 
selling forward on the power from our coal 
units and leaving it free to be sold in real time 
has proven to be a very successful strategy.
TECHNOLOGY
RAPID RESPONSE  
SYSTEM SUPPORT
In December 2016, Drax Group acquired four 
sites where we plan to build new state-of-the-art 
flexible power stations. The sites are near 
Merthyr Tydfil and Swansea in South Wales, 
and in Suffolk and Bedfordshire in England.
Two of the OCGT plants could be generating electricity by 
2020/21 and a further two in 2023/24. The Open Cycle Gas 
Turbine technology will mean these power stations reach 
full capacity just ten minutes after being started up. This 
provides vital flexibility to help provide system support. 
Flexible, rapid-response power like this will help fill the gaps 
caused by system stress. It will help support the increasing 
amount of intermittent renewables such as solar and wind. 
It will also help to accelerate the rate coal comes off 
the system.
FOR MORE TECHNOLOGY  
STORIES VISIT DRAX.COM
10MINUTES
The four OCGTs can reach full 
capacity in 10 minutes
20
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SMART SUPPLY
Haven Power gives businesses the option to choose 
electricity that is both renewable and reliable, unlike that 
from intermittent energy sources such as wind or solar.
The addition of Opus Energy to the Drax Group strengthens our retail offer, enabling more 
businesses to access the type of energy they want. 
Outstanding customer service through personal account management is at the heart of our 
business. We offer to help every customer reduce their energy use and keep costs down. 
We help them understand that energy use and sustainability are linked. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
21
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
“DISRUPTIVE ENERGY”
Jonathan Kini joined Haven Power in January 
2016. In April 2016 he was named CEO, and in 
September 2016 he joined the Drax Executive 
Committee. Jonathan’s experience at Virgin 
Mobile has given him great insight into the 
ways that challenger brands can disrupt the 
marketplace. As Jonathan says: “I’m keen to 
shake this market up. We need to improve 
the trust equation radically. We’re committed 
to making it easier for every business in the 
UK to find the reliable, renewable electricity 
they want, to go green, and to save money.”
72%
of SMEs want their energy 
supplier to be more committed 
to renewable energy (1)
Haven Power gives Drax Group a credit-efficient route to market 
for the reliable, renewable power it generates, while also enabling 
businesses across the UK to reduce their carbon emissions and 
keep their energy costs down.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS
 
– We have grown to a size where we are well set to develop our profitability and 
improve gross margin further.
 
– We are focusing on helping more customers than ever to reduce their energy 
consumption, including encouraging industrial and commercial customers to 
use less when demand – and costs – are high.
 
– The high number of renewals means our UK-based contact centres are 
delivering the excellent customer service that we promise.
 
– We have integrated many of the back-office operations of Billington 
Bioenergy into Haven Power.
OUR AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
 
– We aim to improve our profitability.
 
– We aim to build relationships with customers who have told us they are 
looking for reliable, renewable electricity, and give advice to help them to 
reduce energy use and costs.
 
– We aim to help more businesses understand and reduce their energy. We will 
rollout smart meters and use the data they produce to empower us to 
do more.
 
– We aim to diversify and give more customers an energy supplier that can 
satisfy their needs and preferences, simply, efficiently and reliably.
 
– With the introduction of Opus Energy to the Drax Group, we are even better 
placed to achieve all our aims. It enables us to build a profitable challenger 
retail offering, providing businesses with everything they need.
 
– Opus Energy has 265,000 customer meters, making it the sixth biggest 
supplier to UK businesses and, because of this, we will soon be in a position 
to give many more small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) access to the 
type of energy they want, along with higher levels of choice, service and value.
 
– Opus will allow us to accelerate our retail strategy and give us a platform for 
profitable growth.
(1) Haven Power research report into SMEs.
WE’RE COMMITTED 
TO MAKING IT EASIER 
FOR EVERY BUSINESS 
IN THE UK TO FIND THE 
RELIABLE, RENEWABLE 
ELECTRICITY THEY 
WANT, TO GO GREEN, 
AND TO SAVE MONEY.
Jonathan Kini
Chief Executive Officer,
Drax Retail
22
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SMART SUPPLY / HAVEN POWER
HELPING CUSTOMERS
(1) You can download a copy of our research report into 
SMEs at http://havenpower.com/sme-report
6%
year-on-year retail power sales 
volume growth
14.6TWH
electricity sales
The majority of Haven Power sales volumes are with 
larger industrial and commercial customers. While we 
continue to develop this market, Opus Energy now 
allows Drax to have an increased focus on the UK’s 
5.4 million SMEs.
Our recent research(1) shows that a significant number of SMEs are keen to 
switch to renewable energy. However, in many cases their staff are so busy 
that time is at a premium – they need a partner who can make it easy to switch. 
Our excellent customer service means it is easy to switch, and because our 
renewable electricity does not rely on the sun or the wind, we are able to 
offer a truly reliable supply.
MANCHESTER 
AIRPORT GROUP 
(MAG)
MAG has been a Haven Power 
customer since 2011. 
“Haven Power have consistently provided 
excellent customer service and a reliable, 
renewable product. When we originally made 
the switch in suppliers five years ago our 
dedicated team at Haven ensured the process 
was extremely smooth and efficient, which 
set the mark for the service that has followed.”
Tim Hooper
Head of Group Procurement and Contracts, 
Manchester Airport Group
THAMES WATER 
Thames Water is one of our larger 
customers at Haven Power.
“The option to be supplied with renewable 
power is very important to Thames Water and 
we were impressed by Haven Power’s offering 
in this area. Since joining Haven we have 
received excellent levels of customer service 
from our dedicated Account and Service 
Managers who ensured an easy transition and 
consistently provide an efficient and 
professional service.” 
 
Angus Berry
Head of Energy and Carbon,  
Thames Water
STRATEGIC REPORT
23
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CARBON-SAVING TECHNOLOGY
Haven is committed to helping customers 
understand the link between energy use and 
sustainability. We welcome the Government’s 
decision to roll out smart meters to all small 
business customers by the end of 2020. 
The real-time information that smart 
meters provide will give Haven valuable 
information about how customers are 
using energy. This will help us develop new 
products that can help them optimise their 
use and reduce their carbon footprint.
32,000 TONNES
2016 wood pellet 
sales volumes
STRONGER TOGETHER:  
HAVEN POWER AND OPUS ENERGY
The majority of Haven Power’s contracts 
are in the large industrial and commercial 
market, although we still supply 2TWH to 
SME customers. Opus Energy has significant 
expertise and is a strong presence in this 
sector. It is the sixth largest business power 
supplier by meters in the UK, delivering nearly 
5TWH of electricity a year to its customers, 
supported by a team of 800 employees and 
working from three locations across the UK.
Opus Energy brings with it some additional 
services. It is a substantial gas supplier 
and has the capability to provide a route-
to-market for any renewable electricity 
produced by SME customers that they 
do not need or cannot use themselves.
The two businesses complement each other 
and together are best placed to deliver smart 
solutions to businesses in the UK calling for 
more renewable and lower carbon energy.
The acquisition at Opus Energy was 
completed on 10 February 2017.
BILLINGTON BIOENERGY
Established seven years ago, Billington 
Bioenergy helps homes and businesses 
across the UK to heat their properties 
and reduce their carbon emissions 
through biomass heating. 
We provide certified ENplusA1(1) wood 
pellets for biomass heating systems. 
With thousands of regular business and 
domestic customers, we are now one of 
the UK’s leading biomass pellet suppliers.
BILLINGTON BIOENERGY’S ACHIEVEMENTS
 
– Robust supply chain providing a strategic 
mix of UK and European ENplus A1 
wood pellets, certified to the highest 
European standard.
 
– Many back-office operations now 
integrated with Haven Power for  
greater efficiency.
 
– Extended national depot infrastructure 
integrated with existing Drax access to 
port facilities.
 
– New e-commerce website with online 
bagged sales facility.
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
 
– Drive further sales growth to consolidate 
leadership position in domestic and 
business pellet supply.
 
– Develop software to enhance our 
market-leading customer service.
 
– Implement industry-leading best practice 
health and safety policy and procedures.
(1) EnplusA1 is a European-wide quality standard 
incorporating specification ISO17225-2.
THE BIG FACTOR WAS 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
BENEFIT – THAT’S THE 
KEY THING FOR US.
Tracy Sykes
Facilities Manager at Nostell Priory
SUSTAINABILITY
THE NATIONAL TRUST
Billington Bioenergy has a national 
procurement contract with the National Trust, 
one of the UK’s largest conservation charities. 
For the past two years, Billington have 
provided sustainable biomass pellets to the 
National Trust’s property at Nostell Priory. 
24
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
OUR MARKETPLACE
Over the course of the year, 3.2 GW of new 
wind and solar farms came online, and in the 
third quarter the share of low-carbon power 
from nuclear, biomass, hydro, solar and French 
imports passed 50% for the first time ever.
Coal capacity was lost due to a combination 
of factors, particularly tougher clean air 
legislation and diminishing economic returns. 
It fell to its lowest level ever, producing just 
9% of the country’s electricity. Four years ago, 
coal was still producing 42% of the UK’s power.
INCREASED VOLATILITY
The rise in intermittent renewables is 
changing the way the entire electricity system 
works, with a move away from dispatchable 
fossil-fuelled electricity to a greater proportion 
of weather-dependent renewables. This is 
challenging for the UK electricity system. 
It is also an opportunity for Drax.
It will be some years until significant 
new capacity is added to the system. 
A number of small-scale gas and diesel 
plants are expected to come online but 
the only large-scale plant due to begin 
generating in 2018 (Trafford) has now 
defaulted on its capacity agreement. 
This means that in reality, the earliest date 
at which new large-scale flexible plant 
will actually come online is now 2021.
The planned expansion of intermittent 
generating capacity continues, with 8.5 
GW planned to come online between 2017 
and 2020, which means that volatility will 
remain high for the foreseeable future.
The last 12 months have seen an acceleration of the 
changes that have affected the UK electricity market 
over the last few years. The overall picture was one of 
rising low-carbon generation, falling coal use, falling 
emissions and increasing grid volatility.
All of these trends have provided challenges to Drax’s 
business and required skill and expertise to manage.
Solar power 
Wind power 
electricinsights.co.uk
50%
More than 50% of total 
electricity generated in the 
third quarter of 2016 was 
low carbon
STRATEGIC REPORT
25
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
ANCILLARY SERVICES
Thanks to increased renewable generation, 
carbon dioxide emissions associated 
with electricity are being reduced, as 
gas and coal-fired plants are producing 
less of the UK’s power needs.
However, in order for the entire system 
to run reliably, there are a number of 
requirements that can only be met 
by flexible generation plant.
This results in National Grid requiring 
certain plants to provide services including: 
frequency response, reactive power, the 
capacity for headroom or footroom, black 
start and other ancillary services.
Demand for these services has gone 
up and the cost of providing them from 
conventional plants has become more 
expensive (this is because the plants have 
to be kept running in order to be able to 
provide the ancillary services required). 
Consequently, prices for these services are 
rising and we expect this to continue.
We see an opportunity to provide more 
ancillary services from Drax Power Station 
in the coming year.
Drax’s plan to add generating capacity 
powered by rapid response Open Cycle Gas 
Turbines (OCGTs) will fit the increasing need 
for headroom. In fact OCGTs are ideally suited 
to this, as they can reach full running capacity 
within 10 minutes of being turned on (this 
compares with 90 minutes for a Combined 
Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) power station).
BIOMASS CONVERSION
With the receipt of our Contract for Difference 
(CfD) and the completion of the upgrade 
of our third generating unit to be powered 
by sustainable compressed wood pellets 
rather than coal, the first stage of our 
biomass conversion strategy is complete.
Upgrading generating units to be powered 
by sustainable compressed wood pellets 
as developed at Drax Power Station 
remains the only flexible and reliable 
source of large-scale low carbon power.
Another advantage of biomass upgrades 
of this kind is the fact that they are capable 
of providing many of the ancillary services 
discussed above while also producing 
low-carbon energy at the same time.
This means that flexible biomass-fuelled 
generation like that at Drax can replace 
flexible fossil plants that would otherwise 
still be needed to provide ancillary services 
to the Grid if the majority of electricity 
is coming from intermittent sources.
One example of this is footroom – the ability 
to turn down the electricity supply on 
demand – which requires constant running 
from OCGTs or other fossil fuel plant, making 
it more challenging to meet targets for the 
reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
Lower system integration costs compared 
to other renewables make biomass 
conversion the lowest-cost way to achieve 
decarbonisation in electricity generation. 
A 2016 report from Imperial College London 
and economic consultancy NERA found that 
on a whole system costs basis, biomass is 
the most affordable large scale renewable. 
If this was applied to the Government’s 
planned CfD auctions biomass conversions 
are shown to be £84 per MWh compared 
with offshore wind at £127 per MWh.
HEAT SECTOR
While biomass systems have achieved 
significant volumes of deployment in the 
domestic and non-domestic sectors in recent 
years under the Renewable Heat Incentive 
(RHI), there were comparatively modest levels 
of activity in the market in 2016. This was 
due to a combination of uncertainty over 
the future of the RHI following proposals 
published by Government to reform the 
scheme, and historically low oil prices.
However the outlook for the sector became 
more positive as the year drew to a close. 
The Government announced its final 
reforms to the RHI, proposing an uplift to 
support rates for domestic biomass systems 
and bringing all biomass systems under 
a single tariff under the non-domestic 
regime. This will provide installers and 
customers with greater certainty over 
the future of the support scheme and 
should stimulate renewed activity in the 
marketplace over the coming months.
Meanwhile, the price of oil has gradually 
increased, making the proposition of 
switching to a sustainable, renewable 
alternative more attractive to existing  
oil heating as well as off-grid gas users.
42%
of electricity in the UK 
produced from coal in 2012
9%
of electricity in the UK 
produced from coal in 2016
26
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our business 
model is based 
on an integrated 
value chain.
RAW MATERIALS
Biomass fibre is sourced from working 
forests with a surplus of available material
Coal is purchased from global suppliers and 
often blended with reclaimed materials PG.41
PROCESSING
Wood pellet manufacturing facilities produce 
biomass fuel, including our own sites in the 
Southern US PG.28
LOGISTICS
Biomass and coal fuels are transported 
efficiently in large volumes, using sea and 
rail routes
Facilities at UK ports (Liverpool, Hull, Tyne  
and Immingham) manage imported fuels
900,000
Our two pellet processing plants in the 
US can produce 900,000 metric tonnes 
of compressed wood pellets every year
FUEL STORAGE
At the power station biomass wood 
pellets are stored in climate-controlled 
domes, each with a 75,000t capacity
POWER GENERATION
Six generating units each have an output 
capacity of 645 MWh. Three units use 
biomass fuel and three use coal
Generation of renewable power delivers 
earnings from ROCs and a CfD PG.30
TRADING
Trading of power and ROCs takes place in 
wholesale markets
Power sales are hedged where liquid 
markets exist, minimising price risks
16%
In 2016, Drax Power produced 16% of the 
UK’s total renewable electricity. We have the 
flexibility to help meet electricity demand 
when intermittent renewables such as 
solar or wind power cannot generate
SALES
Sales teams in each business focus on 
market segments, negotiating annual 
and multi-year contracts PG.34
DISTRIBUTION 
Multiple virtual and physical routes 
exist for customers across all business 
sectors to access a range of power 
and heat market products 
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Excellent customer service is standard for 
each business
Dedicated teams ensure high-quality 
advice and support is available, minimising 
complaints and quickly resolving issues PG.12
14.6TWH
Haven Power increased 2016 power sales 
from 13.8TWH in 2015 to 14.6TWH in 2016
SMART SOURCING
SMART GENERATION
SMART SUPPLY
STRATEGIC REPORT
27
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
GENERATING VALUE FROM OUR RESOURCES
Careful use of our resources, also known 
as capitals, allows us to create value for 
our stakeholders.
USING RESOURCES
VALUE CREATED
MORE INFO
MANUFACTURING
We deploy targeted investment to deliver high-quality 
manufacturing capabilities
Output and efficiency are key targets, built on high health 
and safety standards
12.7TWH
biomass-fired electricity
607,000
wood pellets produced
INTELLECTUAL
We are experts and world leaders in deployment of biomass 
technology
We offer “intelligent sustainability” to our retail customers
Innovation is key to business development
Biomass generation 
represents 
65%
of total generation
HUMAN
Excellent health and safety underpins everything we do
Our people provide a wide range of knowledge and skills
Our values (Honest, Energised, Achieving, Together) guide  
the way we work
Only 4
reportable accidents 
1,488
jobs worldwide
FINANCIAL
We have good access to efficient debt, foreign exchange  
and trading facilities
Bank facilities provide cash for working capital and 
investment
Profit is generated to allow dividends to be paid to shareholders
Stable credit rating
BB RANGE
NATURAL
We only source biomass fibre from working forests, where 
surplus stock is available
Our biomass transformation programme has allowed us to 
shift away from coal to lower-carbon electricity generation
Reducing our carbon output is central to our strategy
Biomass power 
generates at least
80%
less carbon than coal
100%
renewable power available 
to retail customers
SOCIAL
Each business has strong links to its local communities  
and we focus our charitable support on the areas where 
we operate
We welcome visitors and our people volunteer in 
local communities
16,428
Drax Visitor Centre visits
£125,233
donated to local charities 
in 2016
PG.31
PG.29
PG.33
PG.21
PG.44
PG.53
PG.40
PG.49
28
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Drax Biomass helps Drax 
Group to deliver a better 
future by changing the 
way energy is generated. 
We manufacture and 
supply high-quality wood 
pellets sourced from 
sustainably managed 
working forests across 
the US South. 
clearly demonstrated our ability to produce 
quality pellets at nameplate capacity. 
Our Baton Rouge transit port facility also 
achieved a major milestone in December, 
when we successfully dispatched our first 
Panamax class vessel – the MV Jawor. With 
a cargo of 61,461 tonnes, the MV Jawor 
is the largest-ever shipment of pellets.
Drax Biomass produced a total of 606,787 
tonnes of pellets in 2016, representing just 
over 67% of nameplate capacity. We managed 
our production during the year to allow 
Drax Power to purchase pellets in the spot 
market at distressed prices. This was a clear 
example of one of the benefits of self supply. 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Drax Biomass 2016 financial results 
were driven by the volume of pellets 
sold to Drax Power Station under our 
commercial agreement. Sales of pellets 
in the year ending 31 December 2016 
totalled $99.6 million, an increase of 
nearly 130% over 2015 sales revenue.
Cost of sales also increased in 2016 
commensurate with our higher production 
volumes. Raw fibre procurement comprised 
the largest share of these costs, and this 
continues to be an important area of 
focus for the business. We successfully 
controlled these costs through a 
combination of measures, including 
improved forecasting of utilisation and 
increased purchases of more cost-effective 
feedstocks such as sawmill residuals.
The EBITDA loss for the year reduced to 
£6.3 million (2015: £14.8 million).
INTRODUCTION
Our pellets provide electric utilities with 
a renewable, low-carbon alternative fuel 
source – one that can be safely and efficiently 
delivered through our global supply chain. Our 
manufacturing operations also promote forest 
health by incentivising local landowners to 
actively manage and reinvest in their forests.
MARKET CONTEXT
2016 was a challenging year for the wood 
pellet industry. Global manufacturing 
capacity outpaced demand due to 
policy uncertainties, project delays and 
unseasonably warm winters in high-demand 
regions. This supply/demand imbalance 
placed downward pressure on pellet 
prices, disproportionately impacting those 
suppliers without long-term contracted 
demand. Depressed spot market pricing 
caused some pellet projects to be delayed 
or cancelled, which will help correct the 
supply/demand imbalance in the near-term.
Drax Biomass remained in a strong position 
through 2016 as a result of intra-Group 
sales to Drax Power under an arm’s-length 
commercial agreement. We also sought 
to improve our cost profile through 
productivity gains, carefully managed raw 
fibre costs and increased asset utilisation. 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Drax Biomass achieved several important 
operational milestones in 2016. Our Amite 
BioEnergy and Morehouse BioEnergy 
facilities saw significant production gains 
over 2015, with each achieving both daily 
and monthly record production levels several 
times over the course of the year. We have 
Pete Madden
President and Chief Executive 
Drax Biomass
DRAX BIOMASS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue
73.6
28.4
Cost of sales
(55.5)
(27.4)
Gross profit
18.1
1.0
Operating costs
(24.4)
(15.8)
EBITDA
(6.3)
(14.8)
STRATEGIC REPORT
29
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
607,000
Tonnes of pellets produced
558,000
Tonnes shipped
SUSTAINABILITY
HOW TO MAKE A  
COMPRESSED WOOD PELLET
 
– Low-grade roundwood is delivered to the woodyard
 
– Roundwood is processed through a drum debarker and the 
bark is diverted for fuel use
 
– Debarked wood is chipped and stored on a woodchip pile
 
– Chips are recovered and screened for quality
 
– Screened chips are processed through a drum dryer to reduce 
moisture content
 
– Dried chips are pulverised into fibre in hammermills
 
– Fibre is extruded under pressure through metal dies to form 
compressed pellets
 
– Pellets are cooled before loading into railcars or trailers
LOOKING AHEAD
Drax Biomass is optimistic about the future, 
and we are positioned for significant growth 
in 2017. We intend to execute several capital 
projects to increase our production capacity 
at both manufacturing facilities. In line 
with our strategy, we are also pursuing 
the acquisition of several third-party 
facilities to increase our asset portfolio and 
geographic reach. These measures will 
enable Drax Biomass to increase our share 
of Drax Power Station’s pellet demand and 
successfully compete for supply contracts 
in new biomass markets. Finally, we will 
also generate additional revenue through 
contractual agreements which allow third-
party suppliers to utilise available capacity 
at our Baton Rouge transit facility.
Risks and mitigations
Weather-related damage to facilities
We carry business interruption insurance to 
protect against significant losses
Fire/explosion hazard from combustible 
pellet dust
We employ advanced fire detection and 
suppression systems at both manufacturing 
sites and port facility
Disruption in fibre supply from 
increased competition
We enter into long-term contracts with 
our suppliers where possible, and we are 
implementing a portfolio-based approach 
to our fibre procurement strategy
Regulatory and political change
We actively engage with regulators and 
legislators at the state and federal levels to 
influence policy that impacts our markets
CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY
In August 2016, our Morehouse BioEnergy 
and Amite BioEnergy facilities achieved 
certification under the Sustainable Biomass 
Program (SBP) – the leading standard for 
sustainable production of woody biomass 
fuels. Drax Biomass is one of only a small 
handful of US pellet manufacturers to obtain 
this certification to date. SBP certification, 
coupled with our continued certification 
under a variety of forest sustainability 
schemes, will help differentiate Drax Biomass 
from other pellet manufacturers as we pursue 
new supply agreements in new markets.
FOR MORE SUSTAINABILITY 
STORIES VISIT DRAX.COM
30
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED
Contract for Difference 
(CfD) clearance completes 
the biomass transformation 
programme to convert 
three of our six generating 
units and provides the 
foundation for our 
Generation growth strategy.
capacity squeeze in the UK market, and 
day-ahead baseload power prices saw 
several periods of significant volatility, 
trading for prices in excess of £150 per 
MWh during November. In 2016, the 
average price was £48 per MWh sold.
Our flexibility and ability to respond to the 
demands of the network in these periods has 
helped to deliver significant value in 2016.
Going forward, CfD approval will help to 
reduce our exposure to fluctuations in 
commodity markets. In addition, provision 
of ancillary services and capacity market 
income (expected to commence from 
1 October 2017) help to provide a more 
robust and diversified earnings base.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
The business has delivered strong 
operational and commercial performance 
in the face of significant challenges.
2016 has seen the largest scope of 
maintenance work the station has ever 
tackled with 4.6 million man hours worked. 
The safe execution of so much additional and 
complex work is a great credit to all those 
involved, a Total Recordable Injury Rate for 
the year of 0.13 being testament to this.
In addition to the planned maintenance 
programme, the entire organisation has 
responded to a number of unplanned 
events. The management of these events 
requires seamless teamwork between 
the operational, commercial and back 
office functions to protect value.
The delivery of excellent cross-team working 
is required in all aspects of our business. 
This allows us to capture value through 
flexibility; examples include sourcing and 
processing non-standard fuels and capturing 
value in the short-term power markets.
We have also continued to develop a cost 
and value conscious culture. The business 
has utilised systems such as Lean, ideas 
forums and targeted profit improvement 
initiatives to deliver material value.
MARKET CONTEXT
Drax Power Station is the largest power 
station in the UK (almost twice the size of 
the next largest) and continues to meet 
some 7% of the UK’s electricity needs. 
The key factors influencing our business 
are the regulatory framework, commodity 
markets, network generating capacity, 
and our operational performance.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2016 represents the first full year of 
operations following the removal of the 
Climate Change Levy (CCL) exemption 
for renewable electricity generation 
on 1 August 2015. The impact of this 
change was a reduction in 2016 
EBITDA in the region of £34 million.
EU approval of the CfD investment contract 
for our third biomass conversion (signed 
in April 2014) took longer than expected 
during 2016. Our original expectation was 
for approval in early autumn, with the final 
decision actually coming on 19 December.
New emissions limits came into effect on 
1 January 2016 under the Industrial Emissions 
Directive (IED). Our plant performance has 
been excellent in this area, and the significant 
investment in emissions abatement 
technology has allowed us to run the plant 
flexibly, as we wished, while staying within 
our annual allowance. We continue to look at 
ways to improve our emissions performance.
COMMODITY MARKETS AND 
GENERATING CAPACITY
Our profitability remains primarily influenced 
by the bark spread (the difference between 
the power price and the cost of biomass 
net of renewable support) and the dark 
green spread (the difference between 
the power price and the cost of coal and 
carbon, including CO2 allowances under the 
EU Emissions Trading Scheme and the UK 
Carbon Price Support (CPS) mechanism).
During 2016, persistently low oil and natural 
gas prices, combined with warm winter 
weather, have kept wholesale electricity 
prices in the UK subdued. However, this 
year did see the first tangible signs of a 
Andy Koss
Chief Executive 
Drax Power
STRATEGIC REPORT
31
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
12.7TWH
Biomass generation
6.9TWH
Coal generation
£48
Average achieved power price per MWh sold
FOR MORE TECHNOLOGY STORIES 
VISIT DRAX.COM
TECHNOLOGY
SUMMER IN THE STATION
What happens in the summertime 
at the UK’s largest power station? 
Electricity demand is lower in the summer, 
so the assumption would be that activity 
at Drax Power Station is minimal. The 
reality, however, is very different. The fall 
in demand is an opportunity to perform 
crucial maintenance work – to invest, 
upgrade and extend the life of our power 
station and prepare for the winter months. 
To carry out major repairs, large sections 
of the power station need to come 
offline – this is called an outage. “We run 
a schedule where each of our six 645 
MW units has a major outage every four 
years,” says Andrew Squires, Outage 
Manager. 2016 was a particularly busy 
year, with two such outages and four 
smaller ones for essential repair works.
Carrying out the huge volume of work 
required to shut down and maintain 
the units – systems of conveyors, mills, 
burners, boilers, pipes, cables and 
turbines – meant that 3,500 people 
were working at the power station, 
including a large number of engineering 
contractors. “It’s a number we’ve never 
seen previously,” Andrew says. 
As Europe’s largest decarbonisation 
project, maintaining our biomass units 
has presented us with new challenges. 
“We’re understanding the engineering 
implications of using biomass in our 
boilers, and developing strategies 
for maintenance,” says Andrew. 
Original story at: http://www.drax.com/
technology/summer-in-the-station-2/
32
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED
DRAX POWER
FINANCIAL RESULTS
To end the year ahead of internal targets 
given the challenging trading, operational 
and regulatory conditions, in particular 
the timing of the CfD, represents an 
excellent performance. The negative 
impact of the delay in CfD approval and 
unit availability issues has been offset by:
1) prompt market and system balancing 
activity which played to our strengths; and 
demonstrated, yet again, our importance 
to the Grid to ensure system stability; and 
2) the decision by National Grid to award the 
business a new 12-month black start 
contract demonstrating the value of Drax 
in helping to keep the UK electricity 
system robust.
Gross profit for 2016 was £337 million 
compared to £390 million in 2015. This 
reduction includes the impact of lower 
power prices, lower generation and the 
removal of the CCL exemption and this 
was mitigated by prompt market and 
system balancing activity and the new 
12-month ancillary services contract.
2016 HAS SEEN THE LARGEST 
SCOPE OF MAINTENANCE 
WORK THE STATION HAS  
EVER TACKLED; WE HAVE 
COMPLETED 4.6 MILLION 
MAN HOURS. 
DRAX POWER FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue
2,490.9
2,638.2
Cost of power purchases
(904.4)
(843.5)
Grid charges
(69.4)
(84.1)
Fuel costs
(1,180.1)
(1,320.5)
Cost of sales
(2,153.9)
(2,248.1)
Gross profit
337.0
390.1
Operating costs
(163.2)
(175.5)
EBITDA
173.8
214.6
STRATEGIC REPORT
33
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
At an operating cost level, we have 
contributed to a reduction in Group 
costs, despite the unprecedented level 
of on-site work described above. 
As a result, EBITDA for the year was 
£173.8 million (2015: £214.6 million).
 
LOOKING AHEAD
Our objective remains to run a reliable, 
flexible and profitable generation business. 
An important part of this is working as a 
team to execute agile decisions and capture 
value in a market where grid stability 
is becoming increasingly important. In 
addition, following the purchase of four 
sites with the potential for us to build 
299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbines (OCGTs), 
the business has initiated the process 
to diversify our generation earnings.
 
CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability has guided our business 
purpose for over four decades. We have 
evolved and innovated to meet the changing 
needs of society. During the 1980s we 
invested in desulphurisation equipment 
to clean up coal, in 2003 we invested 
in research and development to assess 
whether biomass was a sustainable fuel 
of the future. Today we have converted 
three units to burn biomass which now 
accounts for 65% of our total output.
Looking ahead, our coal units are expected to 
end operations by 2025, while investment in 
OCGTs will act as an enabler for other forms of 
renewable energy, particularly wind and solar 
power. Our business purpose directly tackles a 
number of the UN’s sustainable development 
goals endorsed by 193 governments.
Risks and mitigations
Regulatory risk
We engage with key regulatory stakeholders in government 
to continue support for biomass within renewables 
incentives regimes.
Plant risk
We target investment to deliver a safety first operation which 
is reliable and flexible. The plans are responsive to evolving 
running patterns and build on experience of operating 
converted units, including strategic spares and insurance.
Biomass sourcing and 
operations risk
We have long-term contracting plans and continue to 
strengthen relationships with suppliers. To complement this 
we can access spot markets.
Flexible contracting, with regular sampling and inspections, 
secures a reliable and sustainable supply of good quality fuel 
to support high load factors.
Commodity and FX market 
price risk
We have a progressive hedging strategy with forward power 
and Renewable Obligation Certificate (ROC) sales combined 
with purchases of fuels. This is supplemented by the FX  
hedging strategy.
Capturing prompt market 
value and network services
We actively engage with National Grid to offer system services. 
We maintain flexible, reliable station operations to target near-
term trading and balancing market opportunities. 
Key Performance Indicators 
Area
KPI
Unit of measure
2016
2015
People
Safety
TRIR
0.13
0.26
Economic
Biomass generation
TWH
12.7
11.5
Low carbon future
Carbon intensity
Tonnes/GWH
297
474
Security of supply
Availability
%
77.1
85.1
34
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED
Billington Bioenergy (Billington) remains 
one of the leading UK suppliers of ENplusA1 
biomass wood pellets for heating to domestic 
and business customers. Billington supports 
the Group’s continued position that there 
is significant potential for biomass within 
the UK market for heating purposes, aligned 
with the UK Government’s policy objective 
to decarbonise heat over the next decade.
MARKET
The business sector of the electricity 
supply market has continued to be 
very competitive with our established 
competitors being joined by new entrants. 
We are continually improving our service, 
enhancing relationships with our customers, 
and providing the products and propositions 
UK business needs, and so increasing the 
value that Haven provides to the Group.
The renewable heating market is gaining 
traction and has benefitted from Government 
support under the Renewable Heat 
Incentive (RHI). 
The focus of Billington is on the secure 
and reliable supply of consistent quality 
heating pellets, delivered with excellent 
customer service. This is supported by a 
robust sustainable purchasing strategy, 
strategic stock holdings, and a well-positioned 
depot network. Market growth has been 
driven primarily by the RHI, which the 
Government has confirmed will continue to 
be supported through to 2021, encouraging 
consumers to adopt renewable forms of 
heating, such as biomass, and move away 
from fossil fuel heating systems (primarily 
heating oil and liquefied petroleum gas).
DIVISIONAL STRATEGY
2016 was an important year for Haven Power 
with the appointment of Jonathan Kini 
as CEO. The strategic focus of Haven is to 
challenge the market and how customers 
use power, through our unique ability to 
provide reliable and renewable energy 
generated using biomass technology.
As the main part of the Retail arm for 
Drax Group, Haven supplies electricity 
to business customers offering 100% 
renewable electricity, competitive pricing, 
first-class customer service, and contracts 
tailored precisely to their needs. 
The Haven strategy is to:
 
– Inspire change so that energy becomes 
part of a bigger sustainability agenda; it is 
not just about the kind of energy used, it is 
also about the way energy is used. The 
ambition is to make sustainability in energy 
second nature.
 
– Work with customers to manage their 
energy consumption.
 
– Meet customer demands to deliver 
renewable energy. 
Haven’s customer base is both the Industrial 
and Commercial (I&C) and small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SME) markets. 
Haven provides value for the Drax Group 
through the provision of an alternative 
credit efficient route to market for the 
power, ROCs and Renewable Energy 
Guarantees of Origin earned when Drax 
generates renewable power.
Jonathan Kini
Chief Executive
Drax Retail
We have delivered strong 
performance across the 
retail market in an 
increasingly challenging 
environment. 
DRAX RETAIL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue
1,326.4
1,290.0
Cost of power purchases
(688.9)
(710.2)
Grid charges
(310.4)
(285.4)
Other retail costs
(303.6)
(275.1)
Cost of sales
(1,303.0)
(1,270.7)
Gross profit
23.5
19.3
Operating costs
(27.8)
(25.6)
EBITDA
(4.3)
(6.3)
STRATEGIC REPORT
35
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016 
TECHNOLOGY
SMART METERS 
How the energy we use to power and heat our lives is 
tracked, recorded and fed back to utility companies is 
changing. It could mean lower bills and a more stable 
energy network and it’s all thanks to smart meters. It’s a 
simple piece of technology that can have a serious impact 
on how you use energy and how much you pay for it. 
We are currently investing in technology to 
allow us to use the new national smart metering 
infrastructure. Haven will roll out smart meters 
to its customers between 2017 and 2020.
Billington has installed smart meters – known as fuel 
level measurement systems – in care homes and 
schools and projects that a third of its bulk-blown 
pellet customers will have them installed by 2020.
Original story at: http://www.drax.com/technology/
smart-meters-will-change-use-power
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
An excellent standard of customer service 
is central to our retail business proposition. 
This good service reputation has supported 
retention levels. Haven was named Supplier 
of the Year at the UK’s Energy Awards 2016, 
as a result of our focus on energy efficiency, 
customer service and customer partnerships.
We actively manage credit risk by assessing 
the financial strength of customers and 
applying rigorous credit management 
processes. A strong focus continues to be 
placed on billing and cash collection which 
has resulted in the retail business being 
a net contributor of cash to the Group. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Movements in key financial metrics are 
underpinned by continued growth in the 
retail business and changes in average prices. 
For the period in question Haven delivered 
net sales volume growth of 6% to 14.6TWH 
(2015: 13.8TWH) and gross margin growth 
of 21% to £23.5 million (2015: £19.3 million).
The volume growth continues to be from 
the larger I&C market. Many of our larger 
customers are signed up to flexible contracts 
where the customer decides when to fix the 
price of their power, or to leave it to day or 
month ahead prices. The lower wholesale 
power prices have therefore impacted 
on the average sales price for 2016.
Third Party Costs (TPCs) include grid charges, 
the cost of meeting our obligations under 
the Renewable Obligation (RO) and small-
scale Feed-in-Tariff schemes. Grid charges 
include distribution, transmission and system 
balancing costs. TPCs have continued to 
increase and now account for 46% of revenue.
The markets have continued to remain 
very competitive. A focus on sourcing, 
products and services during 2016 
contributed to the gross margin growth.
Billington also delivered strong sales 
volume growth. Margins were in line 
with expectations of the business 
for this stage of its development. 
These factors resulted in a reduction 
of the Retail EBITDA loss to 
£4.3 million (2015: 6.3 million).
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
14.6TWH
Retail power sales volume at customer meter 
6%
Year-on year retail power sales volume growth
21%
Year-on-year Gross Margin growth
Risks and mitigations
Regulatory and political risk
Where possible we seek to work closely with 
and influence regulatory and other bodies
Credit risk
We have well-developed credit checking and 
monitoring procedures
Commodity market price risk
We have well-developed hedging policies 
which are kept under review for market 
developments
Operating risk
We have business continuity plans in place 
which are regularly reviewed and tested
FOR MORE 
TECHNOLOGY 
STORIES VISIT 
DRAX.COM
36
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
WHAT ARE THE UK GOVERNMENT’S 
SUSTAINABILITY LEGISLATION CRITERIA?
Drax claims ROCs for electricity generated 
by biomass. To do so we must show that all 
the biomass we consume meets both the 
sustainability and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
emissions savings criteria set out by the UK 
Government. In summary form, these require 
that management of the forest from which 
the biomass was harvested must ensure: 
 
– harm to ecosystems is minimised;
 
– productivity of the forest area 
is maintained;
 
– bio-diversity is maintained and protected;
 
– the health and vitality of the ecosystem 
is maintained;
 
– customary and legal rights, including 
health and safety standards, are observed.
WHAT ARE WE DOING TO MAKE SURE OUR 
BIOMASS IS SUSTAINABLE?
Drax is working to ensure the delivery of 
sustainability is improved along the entire 
length of our supply chain. We work to 
improve forestry practices in the places 
from which we source the raw materials 
for our wood pellets and to reduce the 
impact of our sourcing right up to the 
moment they are fed into our generating 
units. This responsibility covers three key 
areas: environmental, social and economic. 
This requires us to develop good working 
relationships with all the partner organisations 
with whom we work so that we can identify 
and develop solutions to any issues that 
arise in the process, and that we can help 
our partners improve the way they work.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW
DRAX’S SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Drax Group only ever uses biomass that is sustainably produced and legally sourced. 
We have set ourselves clear requirements in our sustainability policy. In addition 
we adhere to the UK Government’s criteria for sustainable biomass. Our dedicated 
sustainability team reports to the Group Head of Sustainability and they ensure 
our biomass meets all these requirements.
By achieving this, Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) can be claimed for the 
electricity we generate from compressed wood pellets instead of coal.
Significantly reduce GHG 
emissions compared to 
coal-fired generation.
Not endanger food supply 
or communities where the 
use of biomass is essential 
for subsistence (for 
example heat, medicines 
and building materials).
Not adversely affect 
protected or vulnerable 
biodiversity and, where 
possible, give preference to 
biomass production that 
strengthens biodiversity.
Deploy good practices 
to protect and/or improve 
soil, water (both ground 
and surface) and air quality.
Contribute to local 
prosperity in the area of 
supply chain management 
and biomass production.
No net release of carbon 
from the vegetation and soil 
of either forests or 
agricultural land.
Contribute to the social 
wellbeing of employees and 
the local population in the 
biomass producing areas.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
The biomass we use to generate electricity is at  
the heart of our business. Because this must be 
sustainable, we always strive to make sure that 
all of the pellets we use comply with our policy:
SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS IS AT THE  
HEART OF OUR SMART SOLUTIONS
STRATEGIC REPORT
37
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
HOW DO WE ENSURE THE SUSTAINABILITY 
OF BIOMASS FROM THIRD-PARTY 
SUPPLIERS?
Our contract with any proposed biomass 
supplier stipulates that they must make a 
sustainability declaration that provides key 
information about: the areas from which their 
raw materials come; forest management 
practices in those areas; and the GHG 
characteristics of their pellet manufacturing 
plant and their biomass supply chain.
We then require the proposed supplier 
to undergo an audit carried out by an 
independent third party on the ground. 
This involves checking information 
provided in their declaration and 
regional analysis against both our own 
Sustainability Policy and the regulatory 
criteria set out by the UK Government.
This rigorous process demands that the 
independent auditor investigates the forest 
management practices in the areas from 
which the supplier sources their raw material.
For a new supply it is only when this 
process has been completed, and we can 
be sure that the wood pellets the proposed 
supplier provides will satisfy all our policy 
and regulatory standards, that they can 
be approved as a supplier to Drax.
Then, every year, all approved suppliers are 
required to submit up-to-date information and 
data for review in order to demonstrate the 
continued sustainability of their operations. 
Independent auditing then continues as part 
of a regular cycle of supervision (usually once 
every three years but more often if required).
Sustainability can also be demonstrated 
through forest management certification. 
This shows that responsible forestry is 
being practised in the forests where the 
raw materials are sourced. To achieve forest 
management certification the forest and 
management practices must be audited and 
endorsed by independent third parties.
WHAT DOES THE SUPPLIER AUDIT INVOLVE?
Drax’s sustainability audit requires the 
supplier pass no fewer than 107 detailed 
checks along the whole length of their supply 
chain and pellet manufacturing process. 
Negative findings are categorised into three 
priorities: high, medium and low. High-
priority findings can result in termination of 
our agreement. Medium-priority findings 
result in the supplier being given a set 
timescale within which to rectify them. 
Low-priority issues highlight areas where 
our independent auditors believe suppliers 
have room to improve their practices, 
though all requirements are being met.
Twelve new pellet mills and eight existing 
suppliers were audited through this 
independent process in 2016. The auditors 
noted 1 high-priority issue, 23 medium-priority 
issues and 40 improvement opportunities. 
On discovery of the high-priority issue, we 
did not contract with the supplier. Of the 23 
medium-priority issues, 14 are complete, four 
are in progress and five are yet to be actioned.
WHY SUSTAINABLE FOREST  
MANAGEMENT MATTERS
Sustainable forest management (SFM) 
requires environmentally appropriate, 
socially beneficial, and economically 
viable management of forests for 
present and future generations. 
Drax sources biomass only from 
productive working forests. Sustainable 
management of working forests 
provides a wide range of benefits.
Economic benefits: Increased productivity 
and quality due to better management 
practices, improving planting material 
(seedlings), weed control and fertilisation, 
ground preparation and drainage, appropriate 
thinning to provide more high-value wood. 
This can increase revenue for the forest 
owner and encourage investment in the 
forest resource and ensure that the long-term 
future of the forest is secured (as opposed 
to conversion to other more lucrative land 
uses e.g. cotton or urban development).
Sustainable logging cycles – planning 
harvesting and replanting operations 
according to the age and growth rate of the 
forest – can ensure that a regular supply 
of wood is available now and in the future. 
Harvesting programmes can be managed for 
long-term benefit and sustainable supply. 
Environmental benefits: By practising 
SFM, habitat diversity is preserved 
and sensitive sites protected. 
Well-managed forests also help to protect 
and conserve water sources and soil 
quality, reduce the risk of damage from 
fire, pest or disease and increase the rate 
of carbon sequestration and storage. In 
the US South, the growing stock (volume 
of timber/total amount of carbon) of the 
forest has more than doubled in the last 
60 years as a result of improved forest 
management practices, whilst the total area 
of forest has remained largely the same.
Social: SFM also provides greater social 
benefits often offering a greater degree 
of public access with the provision of 
nature trails, mountain bike routes, picnic 
areas and wildlife observation areas. 
Actively managing a forest provides 
benefits to the local economy and 
related industries including increased 
local employment. It also contributes to 
the visual quality of the landscape.
OUR PRINCIPLES
01
04
05
02
03
We never work in countries 
that lack proper regulation.
We never cause deforestation 
or forest decline. 
We never source from areas 
that are officially protected 
or where our activities harm 
endangered species.
We only take wood from 
working forests that grow 
back and stay as forests. 
We require all our suppliers 
to pass tough screening and 
sustainability audits, conducted 
by independent auditors.
1
2
3
North American production of roundwood and pellets 2015 (%)
1. Industrial roundwood
2. Other roundwood
3. Wood pellets
USA
1
2 3
Canada
38
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
CHAIN OF CUSTODY AND FOREST 
CERTIFICATION
Forest management (FM) certification is one 
of a range of methods to confirm, through 
independent third party audit, that a specific 
area of forest is being managed in accordance 
with a particular standard or agreed set of 
principles and criteria. Once achieved, FM 
certification allows the forest owner to readily 
demonstrate their sustainability credentials 
and management standards. In 2016 Drax’s 
suppliers sourced more than 1.5 million tonnes 
of wood fibre from FM certified forests.
FM certification may be difficult to achieve 
for some type of forest owners. That is 
why a secondary level of assessment 
called Controlled Wood is available 
for wood procurement organisations. 
This ensures that wood fibre is NOT:
 
– illegally harvested;
 
– harvested in violation of traditional and 
human rights;
 
– harvested in forests in which High 
Conservation Values (HCVs) would be 
threatened by management activities 
(HCVs are areas particularly worthy of 
protection);
 
– harvested in forests being converted to 
plantations or non-forest use;
 
– from forests in which genetically modified 
trees are planted.
In 2016 4.6 million tonnes of Drax feedstock 
came from controlled sources.
Once certified, Chain of Custody (CoC) can 
be used as a mechanism for tracking wood 
fibre from the forest to the final product 
and destination. Each supplier in the chain 
must have a documented system to be 
able to identify and trace the wood fibre 
at each stage. Drax requires that all of its 
suppliers achieve CoC certification.
ROUNDWOOD AND 
BIOMASS PRODUCTION 
IN NORTH AMERICA
In 2015 almost 400 million cubic metres of roundwood 
(all harvested wood for industrial and fuel usage) was 
harvested in the US for use in the forest products 
industry for construction, furniture, paper, composite 
board production and woodfuel. Of this wood fibre less 
than 4% was used to make wood pellets and only 2.4% 
was used for export pellets. In Canada 156 million cubic 
metres was harvested and only 2.6% was used for wood 
pellet production. This clearly shows that the wood 
pellet sector is a very small part of the overall market 
for wood products.
4.6M TONNES
of Drax feedstock came from controlled 
wood sources in 2016
1
2
3
4
Drax biomass country of origin 2016 
1. USA – 59%
2. Canada – 22%
3. Latvia – 9%
4. Estonia – 5%
5. Portugal – 3%
6. UK – 2%
7. Other EU – 1%
5
7
6
STRATEGIC REPORT
39
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
ACTIVE FOREST MANAGEMENT AND 
CARBON STORAGE
The amount of carbon sequestered from 
a forest is directly related to the growth rate 
of the trees. So the higher the rate of growth 
the more new carbon is sequestered and 
the greater the rate of absorption from 
the atmosphere. 
Mature trees have a high carbon stock 
(the amount of stored carbon) but a low 
rate of absorption. Younger trees are much 
more effective at removal of CO2 from 
the atmosphere. 
If old stands of trees are not harvested their 
rate of carbon absorption will plateau, limiting 
their ability to impact on atmospheric carbon.
Harvesting mature trees from working forests 
when their growth rate has slowed and 
replacing them with young vigorous trees 
has a much better impact on atmospheric 
carbon, especially if much of the high-value 
wood harvested is stored in long-term wood 
products (construction, furniture etc.).
Biomass is a by-product of this process. 
Produced either in the removal of thinnings, 
or as the low-grade roundwood left over after 
sawlogs have been harvested, or as residues 
from harvesting or at the sawmill. Drax 
does not take any wood from primary 
forest or highly bio-diverse forest areas.
COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN AND FEEDSTOCKS OF OUR BIOMASS PELLETS 
The following table shows the types of feedstocks we used in 2016 by weight (tonnes) and 
country of origin.
Sawmill 
residues 
tonnes
Branches, 
tops and bark 
tonnes
Diseased 
wood and 
storm 
salvage 
tonnes
Thinnings 
tonnes
Low grade 
roundwood 
tonnes
Agricultural 
residues  
tonnes
Total 
tonnes
USA
861,083
752,659
9,583
1,413,566
852,544
2,496
3,891,931
Canada
1,125,010
186,611
–
7,393
102,355
–
1,421,369
Latvia
345,365
37,648
809
37,723
161,994
–
583,540
Estonia
215,740
–
–
46,351
94,073
–
356,164
Portugal
32,975
43,438
3,529
33,603
52,385
–
165,930
UK
–
–
–
–
–
133,606
133,606
Other EU
37,637
161
6
827
10
–
38,640
Total
2,617,811
1,020,517
13,927
1,539,463
1,263,361
136,101
6,591,180
THE AMOUNT OF CARBON SEQUESTERED 
FROM A FOREST IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO 
THE GROWTH RATE OF THE TREES. SO THE 
HIGHER THE RATE OF GROWTH THE MORE 
NEW CARBON IS SEQUESTERED.
BIOMASS PELLET FEEDSTOCKS
Our biomass pellets are sourced from North America and Europe. Drax is required to report  
all feedstock categories to the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem) in accordance 
with their guidelines and criteria. This information can be found at: www.ofgem.gov.uk
DEFINITIONS:
Sawmill residues: wood residue in the form 
of chip, bark, sawdust, etc. that is produced 
at a sawmill.
Branches, tops and bark: material produced 
from harvesting that cannot be used for 
other markets.
Diseased wood and storm salvage: timber 
that is diseased or has been damaged during 
a storm.
Thinnings: roundwood from a forest or 
plantation thinning, where the main 
objective is to reduce the density of trees in 
a stand and improve the quality and growth 
of the remaining trees.
Low-grade roundwood: stemwood of 
any size or length that is not suitable for, 
or cannot access, higher value markets.
Agricultural residues: residues from 
agricultural production (e.g. straw, peanut 
husks), or purpose-grown energy crops 
(miscanthus).
1
2
3
4
Drax feedstock mix for years 2014–16 (%)
1. USA – 58%
2. Canada – 22%
3. Latvia – 8%
4. Estonia – 6%
5. Portugal – 4%
6. UK – 3%
7. Other EU – 1%
1. USA – 53%
2. Canada – 20%
3. Latvia – 11%
4. Estonia – 4%
5. Portugal – 9%
6. UK – 2%
7. Other EU – 1%
1. USA – 59%
2. Canada – 22%
3. Latvia – 9%
4. Estonia – 5%
5. Portugal – 3%
6. UK – 2%
7. Other EU – 1%
2014
1
2
3
4
5
2016
1
2
3
4
5
2015
67
67
7
6
5
Drax biomass supply chain GHG emissions
(CO2 EQ/MJ)
50
40
30
20
10
0
Drax
EU
supply
chain
Drax
Canada
supply
chain
Drax
USA
supply
chain
Drax average
40
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SUPPLY CHAIN GHG EMISSIONS
The Renewables Obligation sets out 
the basis on which Drax is required to 
determine and report on the life cycle GHG 
emissions associated with its supply chain. 
Every supplier is required to give detailed 
information on what type/s of fibre is/are 
used to make wood pellets along with full 
details of their sources, the distances and 
vehicle types involved in their production, 
the production process itself, data about 
fuel and energy usage, plus any sea-freight 
data (including what type of vessel was used, 
over which route, over what distance). This 
data is entered into the BEIS (formerly DECC) 
solid biomass and biogas carbon calculator 
and used to determine the precise level of 
supply chain GHG emissions associated with 
an individual biomass supply. Information 
about these levels is reported to Ofgem.
The UK Government has set a limit on the 
maximum supply chain GHG emissions 
permitted in order for biomass to be eligible 
for support under the RO. The current limit 
for CO2 emissions from life cycle analysis 
of biomass supplies is 79.2 g CO2(e)/MJ 
– reducing to 50 g CO2/MJ by 2025.
In 2016 the average supply chain GHG 
emissions from all of Drax’s biomass supplies 
amounted to 33.9 g CO2 (e)/MJ. The UK 
Government has provided a benchmark 
figure for GHG emission from coal which is 
250.8 g CO2 (e)/MJ, therefore in 2016 Drax 
saved around 86% of CO2 (e) emissions 
compared to the coal benchmark.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
33.9CO2 EQ/MJ
2016 average biomass
Supply chain GHG emissions
GHG emissions are affected by a wide 
range of factors including cultivation, 
harvesting and transportation. For Drax 
the majority of our pellets are shipped 
to the UK from North America.
The impact of shipping emissions is 
determined by both distance and vessel 
size. For longer distances (e.g. from North 
America) it is essential to use large-scale 
vessels capable of transporting more 
than 40,000 tonnes of wood pellets each 
time (sometimes up to 60,000 tonnes); 
this significantly reduces the emissions 
per tonne of wood pellets. Within Europe 
shipping distances are much shorter and 
therefore smaller vessels can be utilised, 
which also allows vessels to access small 
ports that can reduce inland transportation.
Drax uses specially designed rail wagons to 
transport the biomass pellets direct from 
port to power station. This is dramatically 
more carbon efficient than road transport.
1
2
Coal sourcing by indigenous and imports 
for the year 2016
1. UK – 28%
2. Imports – 72%
Life cycle emissions 2016 (CO2 EQ/MJ)
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Drax
Biomass
BEIS
2015–20
target
Gas 
average
Coal
average
33.9
79.00
105.28
255.56
Calculated using Ofgem’s Solid and Gaseous Biomass 
Carbon Calculator.
Source: DUKES/2015 (Digest of UK Energy Statistics)
STRATEGIC REPORT
41
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS PROGRAM
The Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) 
is an independent certification scheme 
designed to assure that woody biomass 
has been legally and sustainably sourced. 
In 2016 Drax achieved CoC certification for 
the procurement of wood pellets for the 
generation of electricity and heat under 
the SBP certification scheme. This enables 
us to more effectively demonstrate the 
sustainability of our wood pellet supplies. 
Drax will continue to support SBP and 
continue to encourage wood pellet 
suppliers to achieve certified status.
Ofgem assessed SBP in 2015 and found that it 
met all of the sustainability criteria laid out by the 
UK Government. More information can be found 
at www.sustainablebiomasspartnership.org
COAL SOURCING
As we have upgraded half the power 
station to produce electricity from 
wood pellets, clearly our need for coal 
has reduced. However, it is important 
that we continue to secure reliable coal 
supply from known sources and from 
jurisdictions and counterparties that are 
vetted against our various compliance 
policies. We avoid buying “generic” coals, 
where the origin can be uncertain, either 
bilaterally or over trading platforms. 
Coal sourcing is overseen by our Compliance, 
Sustainability and Risk teams and we carry 
out appropriate due diligence around our 
coal sourcing. Where our checks raise any 
“red-flags” we undertake further targeted 
due diligence and will ultimately engage 
with Drax’s Ethics and Business Conduct 
Committee if that is deemed necessary.
We buy coal from a range of sources with 
the objectives of managing our commercial 
exposures, environmental obligations 
and diversity of supply. In 2016, 28% of 
the coal we used came from UK deep and 
surface mines with the remainder coming 
from major supply basins around the 
world, including the US and Colombia. 
When buying from overseas we have 
continued to require, through our contracts, 
that suppliers meet standards in respect 
of compliance with legislation, human 
rights, labour relations and health and 
safety arrangements. To this end Drax is 
an active member of an initiative called 
Bettercoal. This is a not-for-profit organisation 
founded by a number of major European 
coal generators that sets out to encourage 
mining companies to demonstrate that 
they operate in a socially responsible way.
COAL SOURCING BY COUNTRY
Country
Tonnes
Colombia
1,865,682
US
75,726
UK
770,680
Total
2,712,087
THE AMOUNT OF CARBON SEQUESTERED 
FROM A FOREST IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO 
THE GROWTH RATE OF THE TREES. SO THE 
HIGHER THE RATE OF GROWTH THE MORE 
NEW CARBON IS SEQUESTERED.
42
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Over the last 12 months, Drax Power 
Station has continued its drive to manage 
its impact on the environment, whether 
that be carbon, NOx, sulphur dioxide, 
particulate emissions into the atmosphere, 
use of water or waste to landfill.
There have been no major breaches to 
our environment consents in 2016.
Emissions to air
Drax’s carbon reporting in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and the 
European Union Emissions Trading 
System (EU ETS) is shown in Table 1.
Scope 1 accounts for emissions produced 
by the combustion of coal, heavy fuel 
and propane – to generate electricity, 
along with the operation of certain 
plant at the power station, i.e. the flue 
gas desulphurisation system.
Scope 2 accounts for emissions mainly 
attributed to electricity purchased to 
run operations across our various sites. 
These emissions are measured using the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition) and the Government’s 
published GHG conversion factors.
We are also required to disclose emissions 
from biologically sequestered carbon, 
which includes emissions released through 
the combustion of biomass to generate 
electricity. These emissions are shown in 
Table 2. The figures do not take into account 
the CO2 that has been absorbed from the 
atmosphere during the growth of feedstocks 
which are used to manufacture the biomass 
pellets used at Drax to generate electricity.
The biogenic CO2 emissions resulting from 
power generation are counted as zero in 
official reporting to both UK authorities 
and under the EU ETS as the use of 
sustainable biomass is considered to be 
carbon neutral at the point of combustion. 
This methodology originates from the 
United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
The majority of our emissions result from 
the process of using solid fuel. This can 
make it difficult to identify other smaller 
trends that are still significant. To offset 
this dominance and to ensure we retain a 
balance between highlighting significant 
developments and providing meaningful 
data, we have adopted a materiality 
threshold of 100,000 tonnes of CO2.
Table 3 sets out Drax total electricity 
generation and the emissions per GWH of 
electricity generated by fossil fuel combustion.
Reducing CO2 emissions
A principal indicator of Group performance 
is CO2 emissions, calculated under the 
EU ETS as a ratio of electricity generated 
before deductions used on site. 
Independently verified CO2 emissions at Drax 
Power Station have fallen from 13.3 million 
tonnes in 2015 to 6 million tonnes in 2016. 
That’s a decrease of more than 53%. 
This fall is largely due to the conversion 
of three of our six generating units 
to be fully powered by sustainable 
biomass rather than coal. 
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
SMART SOLUTIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
Sustainability and protecting the environment are crucial  
to Drax and the local communities in which we operate. 
Environmental compliance at Drax Power Station and the 
ash disposal site associated with it is managed under an 
environment management system. This system is now 
externally validated and certified to the new international 
standard ISO 14001 2015. It is audited twice every year.
TABLE 1
FOSSIL FUEL, OPERATIONS AND PURCHASED ELECTRICITY EMISSIONS
 
 
 
Activity
Unit of 
measure
2016 kt
2015 kt
2014 kt
2013 kt
2012 kt
Scope 1
Fossil fuel combustion
KT
6,021 
13,101 
16,476 
20,162 
22,513 
Operations
KT
<100
<100
119 
157 
180 
Total Scope 1
KT
6,021 
13,101 
16,595 
20,319 
22,693 
Scope 2
Purchased electricity
KT
151 
216 
249 
293 
341 
Total Scope 1 and 2
KT
6,172 
13,317 
16,844 
20,612 
23,034 
TABLE 2
BIOLOGICALLY SEQUESTERED CARBON (BIOMASS COMBUSTION) EMISSIONS
 
 
 
Activity
Unit of 
measure
2016 kt
2015 kt
2014 kt
2013 kt
2012 kt
Biologically-sequestered 
carbon (biomass 
combustion)
KT
11,455 
10,238 
7,150 
2,799 
1,214 
TABLE 3
TOTAL EMISSIONS PER GWH OF ELECTRICITY GENERATED BY FOSSIL FUEL COMBUSTION
 
 
 
Activity
Unit of 
measure
2016 kt
2015 kt
2014 kt
2013 kt
2012 kt
Gross generation
TWH
20.8 
28.1 
28.5 
28.0 
29.0 
Emissions per GWH of 
electricity generated
T/GWH
297.0 
474 
591 
736 
794 
STRATEGIC REPORT
43
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Another contributing factor is the changing run rates on our coal-fired units. As these move 
away from providing constant baseload electricity to providing more flexible support services, 
they will be running less frequently and for shorter periods, and hence emitting less CO2. 
Alongside carbon dioxide, we also manage all our emissions to the atmosphere and have 
invested heavily in flue abatement systems to make sure that we comply with all environmental 
limits. All our emissions in 2016 were within the limits set by the Environment Agency.
TOTAL EMISSIONS (KT)
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
Sulphur dioxide
8.3
18.5
23.8
31.7
35.1
Nitrogen oxides
14.7
31.4
35.5
39.2
39.2
Dust
1
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
Reducing NOx emissions
The introduction of the Industrial Emissions Directive from January 2016 requires significant 
reductions in NOx. Drax Power Station has achieved a reduction from 31 kilotonnes in 2015  
to around 15 kilotonnes this year. 
This has been achieved by a number of factors: 
 
– using biomass rather than coal for generation;
 
– the installation of new low-NOx burners;
 
– using low-NOx coal;
 
– fitting five out of six generating units with selective non-catalytic reduction  
(SNCR) equipment. 
SNCR works by releasing urea into the combustion chamber where it combines with oxides 
of nitrogen to produce atmospheric nitrogen and water. 
PARTICULATES 
Particulates released into the environment by Drax Power Station have increased slightly from 
0.9 kilotonnes to 1.0 kilotonnes in 2016, but remain well within the permitted limits.
This increase is mainly due to the use of slightly different fuel in the coal-fired generating units. 
Use of “advantaged fuels”, such as pond fines (the filtered residue of coal washings) and ash 
from biomass that has previously been used in our biomass-fuelled generating units.
USE OF WATER 
Drax Power Station uses water from the River Ouse, and smaller amounts from the Sherwood 
Sandstone Aquifer and town’s mains. 
The water we abstract is principally used for cooling with some also used within the steam 
system and ancillary processes, including SNCR. Around half of the water abstracted for cooling 
is returned to the River Ouse. Procedures are in place on site to manage and monitor drainage 
and water systems and ensure that all discharge consent limits are met.
Borehole water use has slightly increased since 2015, from 1.7 million tonnes to 2.2 million 
tonnes. This is mainly due to the use of the SNCR system to reduce NOx emissions, which 
requires increased supplies of water. This is a temporary increase which will be addressed with 
the commissioning of the new on-site SNCR water treatment plant.
WATER ABSTRACTION (MT)
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
River Ouse water
52.9
60.6
62.5
56.9
56.7
Mains water
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.3
0.2
Borehole water
2.2
1.7
1.7
1.9
1.9
Water utilised on site and 
discharged to the River Ouse
28.4
35.2
34.1
31.5
30.8
WASTE TO LANDFILL
There has been a small increase in waste sent 
to landfill from Drax Power Station in 2016. 
The overall percentage of waste not sent to 
landfill in the past year was 94%. If we remove 
exceptional projects, the figure remained 
at 98%, the same as in the previous year.
The largest exceptional project was the 
removal of the plastic packing material that 
is used to provide extra surface area for 
water to evaporate on at the base of the 
cooling towers at Drax Power Station.
Because we use water abstracted from 
the River Ouse in our cooling towers, 
over time this packing material becomes 
silted up with river mud. This means that it 
needs periodically to be removed, with the 
old material sent to landfill and replaced 
with new packing. 2016 saw just such a 
replacement, which will not be repeated on 
that cooling tower for approximately another 
15 years. The programme itself is ongoing 
and other cooling towers will undergo the 
same treatment over the next 2–3 years.
Drax is one of the first applicants to 
receive certification under ISO 14001 
2015, the revised international standard 
for environmental management systems. 
This demonstrates our commitment to 
and maintenance of the highest levels 
of environmental management. 
1
2
Employment contracts 
1. Full time – 94%
2. Part time – 6%
1
2
Employment status 
1. Permanent – 99%
2. Temporary – 1%
1
2
Employment gender 
1. Male – 75%
2. Female – 25%
1
2
Senior management
Group gender diversity 
1. Male – 78%
2. Female – 22%
1
2
3
4
Business unit distribution 
1. Haven Power – 26%
2. Drax Power – 52%
3. Drax Biomass – 12%
4. Corporate – 9%
5. Billington Bioenergy – 2% 
5
44
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
We carried out an engagement survey of 
all our UK and US employees in October 
2016. Developed and delivered with Towers 
Watson, the survey attracted a participation 
rate of 76% overall. Across all categories of 
question, the results demonstrated a positive 
variance compared with the norm for Towers 
Watson’s Global Energy and Utilities surveys.
EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION
Overall, 37% of the workforce across the 
Group is covered by collective bargaining. 
We have representative employee 
consultation and information arrangements 
in place for those employees who have 
individual employment contracts.
We make use of a range of channels to 
communicate with colleagues and inform 
them of any important developments in 
Group operations. We also provide frequent 
opportunities for employees to feed back.
EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND RELATIONS
All our employees benefit from a range of 
policies to support them in the workplace. 
These include policies designed to enable, if 
appropriate, a range of different work/lifestyle 
preferences, processes whereby employees 
can raise grievances or concerns about safety, 
along with supporting a diverse and inclusive 
workplace. Drax maintains high standards 
in employment practices and strives to give 
employees long-term employment security.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
2016 saw a number of key developments in 
this field.
 
– We successfully launched the Drax Group 
intranet, making it easier to communicate 
with one another across the Group, and 
giving us an online platform through which 
to share learning. 
 
– We are developing an ongoing learning 
programme to help individuals and 
managers through a suite of online and 
offline resources.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
PEOPLE AND CULTURE
At the year-end, Drax Group employed a total of 1,488 people. 
The charts below break down the number of employees across 
all Group businesses. Almost all our employees are on 
permanent contracts. 
The charts show the split 
across the whole Group, 
together with the senior 
management team (Board, 
Executive Committee and 
direct reports). The Board’s 
diversity policy is explained 
in the Nominations 
Committee report.
PG.74
STRATEGIC REPORT
45
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
 
– We have recently completed our first 
leadership training programme across our 
retail businesses. 
 
– We carry out annual performance and 
development reviews for every employee.
 
– Every employee benefits from support 
with his or her personal and career 
development, helping them develop 
the technical skills, leadership and 
management skills and the personal 
behaviours that will help us drive our 
Business Plan forward. 
 
– We have strengthened our in-house team 
in order to support these initiatives and to 
deliver our HR 2020 strategic plan.
REWARD AND RECOGNITION
Our remuneration and reward packages are 
regularly checked against benchmarks in our 
own sector of industry and across the entire 
market – on either a national or a local level 
depending on the individual role concerned. 
We encourage our UK employees to take 
ownership of the business in which they 
work through a range of share plans.
The foundations we are building with our 
new HR strategy will enable us to take a 
more holistic view of reward and recognition 
so that we can create even more personal 
packages tailored to an individual’s needs.
OUR JOURNEY TO 2020
At Drax, we understand that our people 
are the key to our success now and in 
the future. To make that success more 
sustainable, throughout 2016 we have 
undertaken a root and branch review of 
our approach to HR across the Group.
Through an extensive consultation 
process, we have now developed a 
world-class people strategy that will 
impact employees at all levels across the 
Group and take us forward to 2020.
This strategy focuses on three key 
areas, which will help Drax create a high-
performance, sustainable organisation that is 
optimally placed to deliver our strategic and 
operational objectives. These three areas are:
 
– Valuing our people
 
– Driving business performance
 
– Focusing on talent
In particular, our new people strategy is 
designed to enable us to:
 
– attract and recruit the right people to drive 
the business forward;
 
– objectively differentiate between 
our people; 
 
– leverage expertise across the Group;
 
– improve cross functional and cross 
business working;
 
– adapt and respond to constant change;
 
– develop and retain a deep pipeline of 
leadership and specialist talent;
 
– instil confidence and pride in 
our employees;
 
– drive performance.
PEOPLE STRATEGY
The solution is not about “one size fits all” 
as the culture, employee populations and 
life cycle of each of the Group’s businesses 
differ widely. Rather it’s about developing 
base-level consistency in core areas to allow 
the Group as a whole to take advantage 
of an integrated approach to HR.
Working across the four businesses that make 
up the Group, we have agreed a set of shared 
HR values.
We have also started on delivering a People 
Plan that will take us through to 2020. As the 
diagram below shows, this is based around 
our four main focus areas, supported by the 
required foundations and building blocks.
This strategy will enable us to develop a 
culture which values what people do, as 
well as valuing the way in which they do it.
This new culture will be reflected at every 
level throughout the organisation, from 
the systems we use to review performance 
to the development of learning materials, 
and will be reflected in the way we reward 
and remunerate our employees.
By working together across the Group we can 
better support our employees in all aspects of 
their working lives, investing in the areas that 
matter from career and personal development 
to leadership skills and process efficiency.
We are very much at the beginning of this 
journey, but we are committed to reaching 
the end. By fulfilling this commitment, we will 
give ourselves the best possible opportunity 
of finding, developing and rewarding the right 
people to help the Group grow and thrive.
REWARD
TALENT
LEADERSHIP
BEHAVIOURS
HR SYSTEMS
SEGMENTATION
RECRUITMENT
LEARNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT
HR 2020 – FOCUS AREAS
BUILDING 
BLOCKS
REQUIRED 
FOUNDATIONS
MINDSET
INTUITIVE
LOOK
FAIR
OPENNESS
SIMPLE
FEEL
EQUITABLE
46
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Drax has a wide and diverse group of 
stakeholders. These include our shareholders, 
the people who work for us, our customers, 
the companies who supply us, the 
communities in which we work, Government, 
non-Governmental organisations, regulators, 
opinion-formers and the media.
We believe it is absolutely vital to 
communicate effectively with all our 
stakeholders. It is our aim to be transparent 
and open in everything we do.
HOW WE COMMUNICATE
We strive to use the most appropriate 
communications channels to engage all our 
stakeholders and ensure that everyone can 
access all the information they need about 
our policies, practices and strategic direction.
As the world moves increasingly online, in 
2016 we have managed a substantial increase 
in the frequency and volume of our digital 
communications, because this is the most 
efficient way to stay in touch, open up a 
dialogue and to maintain communication 
with many of our stakeholders.
At the heart of our new digital strategy is 
the new website for the whole Group, which 
launched on 6 October 2016. Together with 
a much greater focus on social media and 
on creating content about Drax’s businesses 
and the world of energy in general, this 
has led to dramatically higher levels of 
engagement by stakeholder audiences.
drax.com
+108%
The time visitors spent 
looking at the Investors 
section of the new website 
is up 108%(1).
(1) Based on a comparison of the time 
periods 6 October to 14 December 
2015 to 6 October to 14 December 
2016 (the new website launched  
on 6 October)
30,000
Visitors
Over 30,000 people visited 
the new Drax website 
between its 6 October 
launch and the end of 
the year.
1.2M
Tweets
In the three months to 
mid-November 2016, our 
tweets appeared in 1.2 million 
Twitter user feeds. 
Our content was clicked on 
3,500 times during this period. 
We took part in 174 
conversations, received 1,000 
likes and were retweeted 
825 times.
1,000
Conversations
We’ve had over 1,000 
conversations with individuals 
and other organisations on 
Twitter this year.
12,000
Reads
Our Twitter activity drove 
more than 12,000 reads 
of Drax content on our 
websites and LinkedIn.
+412%
4,343(2) Twitter users follow @
DraxNews – up from 849 
since 1 January – an increase 
of 412%.
(2) as of 14 December 2016
PROMINENT NEW 
FOLLOWERS
Leading new Twitter followers 
over recent months include: 
Iain Wright MP, Chair of the 
House of Commons Business, 
Energy and Industrial Strategy 
Committee, Public Health and 
Innovation Minister Nicola 
Blackwood MP, The Joseph 
Rowntree Foundation and 
many journalists.
DRAX’S DIGITAL UNIVERSE
How digital platforms are enabling Drax 
to engage more stakeholders from more 
audiences, more efficiently.
STRATEGIC REPORT
47
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
electricinsights.co.uk
draximpact.co.uk
+28%
Drax has 5,567 (3) followers 
on LinkedIn – up 28% 
since 1 January when we 
had 4,347 followers.
(3) as of 14 December 2016
4,200
Visitors
4,200 people have visited 
Electric Insights, a Drax 
collaboration with researchers 
at Imperial College London, 
helping to educate 
stakeholders about the 
different technologies 
generating electricity in Great 
Britain, their respective roles 
and their impact.
1,000
Readers
1,000 people have visited our 
Drax Impact website since its 
September launch – this uses 
data visualisations and case 
studies to explore our supply 
chain and its £1.24 billion 
impact to the UK economy.
100,000
Views
Drax content regularly appears in 
more than 100,000 LinkedIn 
users’ feeds each month.
Between 1,000–2,000 of those 
people either click, like, comment 
or share it.
48
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED
BUSINESS CONDUCT
We subscribe to and maintain the highest of 
ethical standards. We always strive to carry 
out our business honestly, with integrity and 
according to the spirit as well as the letter 
of all applicable laws and regulations.
Furthermore, we have created a culture within 
the Group to make it clear that bribery and 
corruption are completely unacceptable. We 
protect fundamental human rights by never 
tolerating the use of underage workers or 
any type of forced labour. We ensure that 
our suppliers have the smallest possible 
impact on the places and the communities 
in which they work. We will bar any supplier 
that breaches these standards or is directly or 
indirectly complicit in such a breach from any 
further connection with Drax’s supply chain.
In 2016, the Group developed Doing the right 
thing, a publicly available document that 
sets out the principles underpinning our 
compliance culture. Employees are required 
to conduct their business in accordance 
with these principles, in addition to the 
policies and procedures that comprise 
our wider compliance framework.
We encourage any employee to speak out in 
complete confidence through our policy on 
whistleblowing. This gives them information 
about how to disclose any information or 
concerns they may have, in good faith that 
relate to safety, fraud or other illegal or 
unethical conduct.
Our tax strategy reflects our understanding 
of the fact that public policy on taxation 
and the entire tax environment is changing. 
In 2016 we paid taxes of more than £130 
million. These included taxes on our profits, 
taxes on our workforce, taxes levied for 
burning fossil fuels as well as environmental 
taxes. This figure excludes VAT.
In 2017 we will ensure compliance in full with 
the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 
and a statement will be published on our 
website as required. We will also comply in 
full with the new requirements on reporting 
pay by gender when these are introduced.
SUPPLY CHAIN
Non-fuel procurement
We strive to find working partners and 
suppliers from a diverse range of backgrounds. 
Whenever we can we aim to partner with 
small and medium-sized organisations 
in the communities where we work. 
We are signed up to the Prompt Payment 
Code and are completely committed to paying 
our suppliers on time. We fully understand 
the vital importance of prompt payment 
to our suppliers’ cash flow, particularly for 
the smaller businesses among them.
We understand that sustainability policy must 
focus on social, economic and environmental 
factors as well as price, service and quality. 
We have adopted these broader principles 
throughout our procurement practices. 
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Drax sees timely and accurate communication 
with shareholders as central to our 
relationship. We share results, prospects and 
our latest thinking with investors through a 
wide range of channels. These include our 
Annual General Meeting, our Preliminary 
and Interim results announcement, our 
Annual report and accounts and Trading 
updates. These documents can all be 
found online at www.drax.com. 
We ensure that any important issues that 
affect our trading and the growth and 
direction of Drax Group are shared in a timely 
way through the appropriate regulatory 
information service, and through our website 
and social media as soon as is practicable.
We often follow announcements with more 
detail for our investors through conference 
calls or presentations. We hold regular 
meetings with major institutional shareholders 
along with other potential investors, to help 
them understand our communications and to 
enable the Board to gather valuable feedback.
We use the investor section of our website 
to enable private investors to gain an 
accessible and transparent understanding 
of the business and its strategic direction.
PUBLIC AFFAIRS
It is vital to our business that we develop 
and maintain good relationships with 
individuals from public life, whether they 
be elected representatives, appointed 
officials or key opinion formers.
In 2016, following consultation with our 
stakeholders, we played a leading role 
in a number of initiatives, including:
Northern Powerhouse
We met with several of our regional 
stakeholders, including policy makers 
and members of our supply chain in the 
North of England, who said they would 
like to see Drax take on a more prominent 
leadership position on the development of 
the “Northern Powerhouse” concept. Drax 
also believes the generation of renewable 
energy, particularly offshore wind and 
biomass generation, is one of the region’s key 
strengths which the Northern Powerhouse 
should promote. To help ensure renewable 
energy has its rightful place at the heart 
of the Northern Powerhouse and the 
Government’s wider industrial strategy, 
Drax was delighted to join the Northern 
Powerhouse Partnership and to pledge its 
support for the Prime Minister’s Northern 
Powerhouse Partnership Programme.
Energy UK
Drax continues to play an active role in Energy 
UK, the trade body for the UK’s electricity 
industry. As a member of the Energy UK board 
and several working committees, Drax is well 
positioned to take a leading role on the key 
generation and retail challenges facing the 
industry as it undergoes a transformation to 
meet the challenges of a low carbon future. In 
the past year Drax has worked with Energy UK 
on important issues including the relationship 
between heat and electricity policy, 
transmission network charging reform, how 
best to deliver cost-effective decarbonisation 
and enhancing existing market mechanisms 
that ensure security of supply.
Biomass UK (the Renewable Energy 
Association’s biomass power sector group)
A consistent theme emerging from our 
stakeholder engagement has been the need 
to ensure the UK biomass sector is properly 
represented and that the whole biomass power 
sector speaks with a unified voice to highlight 
not only how it ensures the biomass used 
in power generation is sustainable but also 
that our messages of the benefits of biomass 
generation are more widely understood. 
In particular, few people understand the 
true value of the flexible, reliable and low 
carbon power that sustainable wood pellets 
provide in the UK. Drax was instrumental 
in the reinvigoration and rebranding of the 
Biomass Power Sector Group which Drax 
now chairs and helps support financially.
European Trade Associations: EURELECTRIC 
and AEBIOM (the European Biomass 
Association)
The European Commission proposed new 
sustainability criteria for sold biomass 
as part of its revision of the Renewable 
Energy Directive in December 2016. Drax 
is well known for having some of the most 
robust biomass sustainability criteria in the 
world and strongly backs the EU’s plans 
for robust and pragmatic sustainability 
criteria for solid biomass across the EU. 
As such, Drax continues to fully engage 
with the Commission and the other EU 
Institutions as they draw up the policy. We 
do so bilaterally and also through the trade 
associations which represent the power 
and biomass sectors in Brussels. Drax is now 
represented on the Board of AEBIOM and 
chairs EURELECTRIC’s taskforce on biomass.
STRATEGIC REPORT
49
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
While we are keenly interested in the field of 
public affairs, we have no interest in party 
politics. This is why we made no political 
donations anywhere during 2016 (2015: nil). 
We are proud to state that we will continue 
to have contact with people who are active 
in politics only in order to promote the 
Group’s legitimate business interests.
What counts as political expenditure within 
the EU encompasses a very wide range 
of activities, many of which may not be 
considered as political in a normal sense. 
In order to avoid breaching EU legislation 
in any way – entirely unknowingly – Drax 
presents a resolution at the Annual General 
Meeting to seek shareholders’ approval 
for expenditure in this area of £100,000 
by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Drax Biomass Inc.
Drax Biomass Inc. regularly meets with 
elected officials and policymakers at the 
federal state and local levels to advise on 
business plans, industry developments 
and policy matters of importance to the 
business and our suppliers and customers. 
In addition, Drax Biomass maintains an 
active presence in state and local business 
associations to raise the biomass industry’s 
profile within the broader business 
community, and to advance measures that 
promote local economic development.
Drax Biomass also engages with the broader 
forestry sector through memberships in 
various state forestry associations, including 
those in Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas and 
Georgia. These associations allow us to work 
alongside landowners, foresters, state officials 
and other forest product manufacturers on 
issues related to conservation, development 
and responsible use of forestland.
COMMUNITY RELATIONS
In the course of 2016, the Group donated a 
total of £125,233 to a range of charitable and 
non-charitable causes in the community. 
Charitable donations totalled £114,791.
Drax Power Station is a major employer in 
the Selby area. We also play a positive role 
in the local community, and support various 
initiatives at a local and regional level. We do 
this by giving funding to charities and events 
by developing and running campaigns in 
the educational environmental fields. Our 
nominated charity for 2016 was Selby Hands 
of Hope, to whom we donated a total of 
£20,337. We also meet regularly with local 
officials to ensure we listen to any concerns 
they may have and to keep them up to date 
on recent developments and future plans.
Our community engagement reaches wider 
audiences through seasonal events held 
at our Skylark Nature Reserve. This year 
the business has also focused on future 
employability of young people through our 
STEM challenge, which engages local school 
children (ages 11 to 18) in a competition to 
develop an idea to improve something in 
their communities. The challenge requires 
them to apply their science and engineering 
know-how to come up with an inventive 
solution, as well as mathematics skills to 
budget and plan its implementation.
Drax Biomass Inc. conducts local and 
regional outreach through our participation 
in sustainability-related certification 
programmes. For example, in early 2016, 
Drax Biomass completed an extensive 
stakeholder consultation with the local 
communities surrounding our facilities as part 
of our successful bid to achieve certification 
under the Sustainable Biomass Program. 
We contacted over 200 individuals and 
organisations representing environmental 
interests, landowners, Government, 
academia and other stakeholders. We 
provided them with an overview of our 
core principles and sourcing practices, and 
solicited recommendations to strengthen 
our risk management framework.
In liaising with its local community, Haven 
employees have been involved in a number 
of community initiatives throughout 
2016, including supporting a local charity 
transforming woodlands into a tranquil 
setting for terminally ill people and children 
with severe learning difficulties; and 
providing advice at local school recruitment 
workshops. Various monthly events 
organised by employees meant that Haven’s 
charity of the year – The Children’s Ward at 
the Ipswich Hospital – was able to benefit 
from donations in excess of £8,000. 
VISITORS TO DRAX
Drax Power Station welcomed over 16,000 
people in 2016, an increase of 19% on 
2015’s figures. This increase is thanks to 
a more streamlined booking system and 
more tailored tours, designed to offer 
visitors the particular areas of interest 
they want, especially the curriculum-
based tours for schools and colleges.
In addition to this, we are now welcoming 
groups from a more diverse background. 
With improved use of social media, we are 
attracting community groups such as Rotary, 
WI, U3A and special interest groups such as 
train enthusiasts and engineering specialists.
Tours of the power station have been updated 
to tell the story of sustainable wood pellets, 
the upgrade to biomass power, the logistics 
involved in transporting and storing the 
pellets, as well as their treatment and use 
of biomass pellets to produce electricity.
Drax Power Station is now also open on 
weekends in order to allow family access 
to the site, enabling people to visit who 
previously hadn’t been able to do so and 
create a learning environment for the 
whole family and an exciting experience.
Drax now has the use of two, specially 
designed, electric buses that can take visitors 
around the site, quickly and efficiently, 
with zero emissions on site, adding to the 
renewable credentials that we talk to the 
visitors about. These have proven an excellent 
way of engaging with the visitors as they 
allow conversations to take place and the 
visitors to get closer to the plant itself, so they 
can experience more of the “wow” factor.
50
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
In a year of significant operational and market 
challenge, we have performed in line with 
our guidance.
REVENUE
£2,950M
(2015: £3,065m)
GROSS MARGIN
£376M
(2015: £409m)
EBITDA
£140M
(2015: £169m)
PROFIT AFTER TAX
£194M
(2015: £56m)
BASIC EPS
48PENCE
(2015: 14 pence)
INTRODUCTION
In 2016 we continued to face a 
challenging business environment, with 
sustained weakness in power prices and 
uncertainty following the UK’s decision 
to leave the European Union in June.
However, whilst Group EBITDA of £140 
million is some £29 million lower than in 
2015, once the impact of a full year of lost 
Levy Exemption Certificate (LEC) income is 
taken into account (circa £30 million), the 
underlying financial performance of our 
business was creditable and in line with 
our guidance. This is a clear indicator of 
the continued strength in our operations, 
the resilience of the business and its agility 
in responding to the challenges faced.
A major feature of our results during 2016 
was the impact of Sterling depreciation 
following the Brexit vote. This led to 
significant gains in our balance sheet and 
income statement from unrealised gains 
on derivative contracts, largely relating to 
foreign exchange hedges. A gain relating to 
Sterling depreciation was also recognised 
within interest charges. In the medium term 
these changes will be managed through 
our extensive hedging programme, but in 
the longer term, without action on our part, 
Sterling’s sustained depreciation may lead 
to increases to our fuel costs. We are already 
working on solutions, should this occur.
Furthermore, 2016 was the year we laid the 
groundwork for future growth, with the final 
clearance of our Contract for Difference 
(CfD) in December marking the conclusion of 
our biomass transformation, the conditional 
acquisition of Opus Energy, subsequently 
completed in February 2017, and investment 
in four Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
generation opportunities in the UK.
We continue to maintain a robust balance 
sheet, with net debt of £93 million at 
31 December reduced from £187 million in 
2015 due to positive cash flows arising from 
our focus on efficient use of working capital. 
We will continue to focus on working capital 
and cash optimisation during 2017 and remain 
committed to maintaining a strong balance 
sheet. While the financing of the Opus 
acquisition will add leverage to our balance 
sheet, we expect our net debt to be back 
down to around 2xEBITDA by the end of 2017.
The new strategy the Group has adopted 
in 2016 is designed to accelerate the 
development of more long-term sustainable 
earnings and less dependence on commodity 
prices. I am increasingly confident that 
this new strategy, when combined with 
the Group’s critical position in the UK 
energy system and strong asset base, 
provides an excellent platform upon 
which to increase shareholder value.
STRATEGIC REPORT
51
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
REVENUE
Consolidated revenue for 2016 of £2,950 
million was £115 million lower than in 2015. 
Electrical output from our Generation 
business of 19.6TWH was significantly lower 
than 26.7TWH in 2015, as lower market 
power prices resulted in our coal-fired units 
being out of merit for much of the summer.
The impact of lower power prices, and the 
resultant lower load factors, was somewhat 
mitigated by a combination of the flexibility 
and reliability of our generation plant and 
increased Renewable Obligation Certificate 
(ROC) revenues, recognised when we sell 
ROCs to third parties, of £362 million. Our 
ability to quickly respond to changes in 
demand, combined with high availability, 
enabled us to capture real value in the short-
term prompt and system balancing markets.
Revenue also includes £47 million in revenues 
arising from provision of Ancillary Services, 
an increase of £33 million from 2015. This 
included a 12-month black start contract 
signed with National Grid in May 2016, and 
demonstrated the value of the flexible, reliable 
support services our generation plant can 
provide to the UK electricity network.
As described in the Chief Executive’s 
Review the CfD contract for our third unit 
conversion was approved under State 
aid rules by the European Commission 
on 19 December 2016. We commenced 
generating power under this contract on 
21 December and recognised revenue of £10 
million in accordance with our accounting 
policy (set out in further detail in note 2.2 
to the financial statements) in the period.
The CfD approval arrived much later 
in the year than originally anticipated, 
leading to a financial result at the 
lower end of market guidance.
Retail power revenues increased from £1,285 
million in 2015 to £1,320 million in the year, 
underpinned by growth in sales to 14.6TWH 
(2015: 13.8TWH) which reflects strong 
performance in a highly competitive market.
GROSS MARGIN
Consolidated gross margin for 2016 of 
£376 million is primarily derived from 
our generation activities and reflects a 
creditable performance when considering 
the loss of income from LECs. This 
compares to £409 million in 2015. 
The prior year included £34 million of 
income from LECs, earned prior to the 
cessation of the Climate Change Levy 
exemption in August 2015. Gross margin 
performance before LEC income was 
therefore consistent year-on-year, despite the 
challenging commodity price environment.
ROCs continue to form an essential 
component of our financial performance. 
The expected benefit of ROCs earned is 
recognised as a reduction in our biomass 
fuel costs at the point of generation and 
subsequently recognised as revenue when 
the ROC is sold to a third party. We earned 
ROCs reducing costs, with a total value of 
£536 million in 2016 (2015: £482 million).
We delivered a strong operational 
performance across our Group, with our 
Retail and Biomass Supply businesses 
increasing their gross margin contributions 
by £4 million and £17 million respectively, 
driven by increased sales volumes. Further 
segmental financial performance data is 
provided in the notes to our consolidated 
financial statements on page 125.
EBITDA
Operating costs of £236 million were 
slightly lower than the previous year 
(2015: £240 million).
Our US-based wood pellet manufacturing 
business saw an increase in costs reflecting 
its first full year of commercial operations 
– with 558 kt of pellets shipped to Drax 
Power Station compared to 243 kt in 2015. 
We incurred costs of £2 million in the 
delivery of strategic options across the 
business, including the acquisition of Opus 
and four OCGT sites (see below). These 
investments have been offset by operating 
cost savings delivered from our ongoing 
focus on cost and value efficiency across 
our Group. In particular, our Generation 
business delivered a net saving of £12 million 
in operating costs compared to 2015, 
despite a record year for the volume and 
value of maintenance work completed.
As a result of these costs and the gross 
margin performance described above, 
consolidated EBITDA for 2016 was £140 
million, compared to £169 million in 2015.
EBIT
Following the completion of our biomass 
transformation work, combined depreciation 
charges and losses on the disposal of 
fixed assets increased from £108 million 
in 2015 to £113 million in the year. 
NET INTEREST CHARGES
Net interest charges of £6 million are very 
low compared to previous years (2015: £17 
million) due to substantial gains on balances 
held in foreign currencies following the 
depreciation of sterling in the second 
half of the year. A full breakdown of the 
components of interest is shown in note 2.5.
UNREALISED GAINS ON DERIVATIVE 
CONTRACTS
A key component of the Group’s risk 
management strategy is the use of 
forward contracts to secure and de-risk 
the future cash flows of the business.
Whilst these contracts are all entered into 
for risk management purposes, a proportion 
of our portfolio is not designated into a 
hedge accounting relationship under 
IFRS. Where this is the case, the unrealised 
gains and losses arising from the change 
in market value of these contracts is 
recognised in our income statement.
In 2016, we recognised unrealised gains 
of £177 million (2015: £124 million) within 
the income statement, below EBITDA 
and excluded from underlying earnings, 
in respect of outstanding contracts for 
future delivery. In our balance sheet a 
similar, gain was recognised of £327 million 
(2015: £23 million) in the hedged reserve.
The gains principally relate to forward foreign 
currency purchase contracts and reflect the 
value of our hedge as Sterling has weakened 
substantially against the US dollar and Euro 
in 2016, currencies in which the majority 
of our fuel purchases are denominated. 
The term for which we can hedge is limited 
by available credit lines and market liquidity. 
Our existing currency hedge extends to 
2021, beyond which if markets remain at 
current levels there is a risk that the cost of 
our fuel purchases will materially increase.
The accounting treatment of these contracts 
is set out in further detail in note 7.4 to 
the consolidated financial statements.
52
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PROFIT BEFORE/AFTER TAX
Profit before tax, in accordance with  
IFRS, is £197 million for 2016, compared 
to £59 million for the previous year. The 
year-on-year change predominantly reflects 
one-off asset obsolescence charges of 
£109 million in 2015 and the £53 million 
increase in unrealised gains due to the 
increased value of our foreign currency 
purchase contracts described above.
The tax charge for the year of £3 million 
(2015: £3 million) is described further below 
and results in profit after tax of £194 million 
(2015: £56 million), or basic earnings per 
share (EPS) of 48 pence (2015: 14 pence).
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE/AFTER TAX 
(“UNDERLYING EARNINGS”)
We also calculate underlying earnings, which 
excludes the effect of unrealised gains and 
losses on derivative contracts, to assess 
the performance of our Group without the 
income statement volatility introduced 
by non-cash fair value adjustments on 
our portfolio of forward commodity 
and currency purchase contracts. 
In addition, in 2016 we have excluded from 
the underlying earnings the material one-off 
non-cash credit arising from the recognition 
of a £31 million deferred tax asset in relation 
to accumulated start-up losses in our US 
business. The business has now reached an 
operational maturity which makes future 
profitability probable. In 2015, we excluded an 
asset obsolescence charge of £109 million.
Underlying profit before tax for 2016 
of £21 million reduced from £46 million 
in 2015, reflecting lower EBITDA and 
higher depreciation charges, partially 
offset by lower net interest costs.
The underlying tax credit for 2016 of 
£0 million (2015: £1 million) excludes the 
tax effect of non-underlying translations.
This results in underlying EPS of 5 pence 
per share (2015: 11 pence per share).
FINANCIAL POSITION
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
UNDERLYING PROFIT 
AFTER TAX
£21M
(2015: £46m)
UNDERLYING EPS
5PENCE
(2015: 11 pence)
CASH GENERATED 
FROM OPERATIONS
£213M
(2015: £166m)
NET DEBT
£93M
(2015: £187m)
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure of £96 million, reduced 
from £174 million in 2015, reflects lower 
biomass transformation spend and ongoing 
maintenance expenditure in respect of 
our generating assets partially offset by 
investment in our US pellet plants.
Total spend on our biomass transformation 
stands at £673 million. With the generation 
transformation complete and a small level 
of residual work to conclude our Industrial 
Emissions Directive compliance work 
in 2017 the project has been delivered 
in line with original cost estimates.
Looking forward, we have assessed the 
likely future prospects of our existing 
generation fleet and associated assets 
and have taken the decision to reduce the 
expected remaining useful economic life of 
coal-specific assets to a long stop date of 
2025, in line with the Government’s stated 
ambition for the cessation of unabated coal 
generation. This will result in an acceleration 
of depreciation up to 2025 and higher 
depreciation charges of approximately 
£30 million per annum, from 2017. 
We remain confident in the future prospects 
of our generating assets and stand ready to 
convert more of our units to run on biomass 
fuel with the right support. Furthermore, we 
will invest in our generating units’ reliability 
and flexibility to ensure we can continue 
to provide the essential services required 
by the grid and maximise the value of our 
Generation business. We will continue to 
invest in optimising our generation and wood 
pellet manufacturing assets to ensure we 
can continue to deliver a secure and flexible 
energy source, and take opportunities 
to grow the Group’s capabilities.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
Cash generated from operations 
amounted to £213 million in 2016, a £47 
million increase from the previous year.
Despite the reduction in profitability year 
on year our continued focus on efficient 
working capital and cash management 
helped to release a further £62 million of 
cash, principally driven by the acceleration 
of Retail receivable cash flows following 
the execution of a new monetisation 
facility in the first half of the year.
STRATEGIC REPORT
53
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
OTHER INFORMATION
We also realised a small net cash inflow of 
£13 million on our ROC and LEC assets (2015: 
outflow of £86 million) reflecting the value of 
these assets generated but not yet sold on our 
balance sheet, which reduced to £257 million 
(2015: £270 million). Historically, this value 
has increased as we generated additional 
ROCs from biomass-fired generation. Cash 
from ROCs is typically realised several months 
after the ROC is earned, however, we have 
optimised our trading activities to monetise 
a proportion of these assets and accelerate 
these cash flows which, for the first time, 
offset this impact. With the conversion of 
our third unit under a CfD contract from 
December 2016, the volume of ROCs we 
generate in future years will reduce with a 
consequent benefit to our cash flows in 2017.
The overall net cash inflow for the year 
was £95 million (2015: net outflow of £47 
million) and includes capital investments of 
£93 million (2015: £179 million) and dividend 
payments of £11 million (2015: £50 million).
NET DEBT AND FUNDING
Net debt at 31 December 2016 was £93 
million, compared to £187 million at the end 
of 2015, reflecting a stable funding platform 
and the net cash inflow described above.
Our primary funding platform remains 
consistent with that in the previous year, 
with £325 million of term loans drawn down. 
The maturity profile of our loans extends to 
2024, with the first repayments due in 2017.
We remain committed to a strong 
balance sheet and plan to refinance 
our existing debt as well as our Opus 
acquisition facility during 2017, while 
maintaining a rating in the BB range.
Further information about our funding 
arrangements is included in note 
4.3 to the consolidated financial 
statements, on page 142.
ACQUISITION OF OPUS ENERGY GROUP 
LIMITED
On 6 December 2016 we announced the 
proposed acquisition of Opus Energy Group 
Limited (Opus), a well-established and proven 
energy retail business serving the SME 
market, for consideration of £340 million cash.
As a Class 1 transaction, the proposed 
acquisition was approved by shareholders 
at a general meeting on 8 February 2017 
and concluded on 10 February 2017, 
with Drax obtaining control of Opus at 
that date. Opus is expected to deliver 
enhanced margins to Drax’s retail business 
having experienced consistent mid-
single digit operating profit/EBIT margins 
over the last three financial years.
Financial information on the assets and 
liabilities acquired, plus an assessment 
of the impact of the acquisition on our 
financial statements, is provided in 
note 5.1 to the consolidated financial 
statements on page 146.
The acquisition is partly financed by a new 
short-term debt facility of up to £375 million  
at which £200 million has been drawn down, 
repayable by July 2018. The facility is solely  
for acquisition purposes.
ACQUISITION OF OPEN CYCLE GAS TURBINE 
DEVELOPMENTS
On 6 December 2016, we also announced 
the acquisition of four 299 MW OCGT 
development projects in the UK for initial 
cash consideration of £18.5 million.
The initial consideration was funded from 
existing cash reserves. Assuming full 
development, the total investment in each 
project is expected to be in the range of 
£80–100 million with the timing of this 
investment dependent upon the timing of 
associated capacity market contracts.
The net assets acquired as part of 
this acquisition had a fair value of £22 
million. Full details of the impact of the 
acquisition on our financial statements 
is included in note 5.1 to the consolidated 
financial statements on page 146.
TAXATION
The 2016 tax charge of £3 million compares 
to £3 million in 2015. In 2016, the one-off 
non-cash deferred tax credits arising from 
the reduction of future UK corporation tax 
rates to 17% from 2021 (£12 million) and the 
recognition of deferred tax assets associated 
with start-up losses in our US business 
for which we consider the associated 
future tax benefit to be probable (£31 
million) reduced the overall tax charge.
The underlying effective rate of tax (excluding 
the post-tax impact of unrealised gains 
on derivatives contracts and US deferred 
tax) is -10%, less than the standard rate of 
corporation tax in the UK, the difference 
arising predominantly from the impact of 
the corporation tax rate changes described 
above. The comparable underlying rate 
in 2015, which in addition excluded the 
post-tax impact of asset obsolescence 
charges, was -4% and also included the 
impact of future corporation tax rate 
changes announced in the 2015 Budget.
Cash taxes paid during the year were 
£2 million (2015: £6 million). 
DISTRIBUTIONS
The Board has begun a review of our dividend 
policy, but for 2016 our policy remains to 
distribute 50% of underlying earnings in 
each year. Underlying earnings for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 were £21 million 
(2015: £46 million), as described above.
On 22 February 2016, the Board resolved, 
subject to approval by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 20 April 
2016, to pay a final dividend for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 of 0.6 pence 
per share (£2.4 million). The final dividend 
was subsequently paid on 13 May 2016.
On 25 July 2016, the Board resolved to 
pay an interim dividend for the six months 
ending 30 June 2016 of 2.1 pence per 
share (£8.6 million), representing 50% of 
underlying earnings for the period. The 
interim dividend was paid on 7 October 2016.
At the forthcoming AGM, the Board will 
recommend to shareholders that a resolution 
is passed to approve payment of a final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 
2016 of 0.4 pence per share (£1.8 million), 
payable on or before 12 May 2017.
Shares will be marked ex-dividend on 
20 April 2017.
54
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
VIABILITY STATEMENT
STATEMENT OF VIABILITY
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the directors have assessed the 
prospects of the Group over a period 
significantly longer than the 12 months 
required by the going concern provision.
In preparing this assessment of viability 
the Board has considered the principal 
risks faced by the Group, relevant financial 
forecasts and sensitivities, the availability 
of adequate funding and the strength 
of the Group’s control environment.
ASSESSMENT PERIOD
The Board conducted this assessment 
over a period of three years, which was 
selected for the following reasons:
 
– The Group’s Business Plan, which is 
reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis 
and is used for strategic decision making, 
includes a range of financial forecasts and 
associated sensitivity analysis. This Plan 
covers a three-year period in detail. 
 
– Within the three-year period liquid 
commodity market curves and established 
contract positions are used in the 
forecasts. Liquid curves typically cover a 
one to two-year window and contracts 
cover periods between one and ten years. 
In particular, we benefit from the stable 
and material earnings stream available 
from the CfD until 2027. Selecting a 
three-year period balances short-term 
market liquidity against our longer term 
contractual positions. 
 
– Within a three-year horizon there is limited 
certainty around markets and regulatory 
regimes. However, in selecting this period 
the Board has assumed no material 
changes to the Group’s mid-term 
regulatory environment and associated 
support regimes. 
REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties, 
set out in detail on pages 55 to 61, have 
been considered over the period.
The principal risks with the potential to 
exert significant influence on viability are: 
commodity price changes, political and 
regulatory changes, biomass acceptability 
changes and plant operating failures. A 
significant adverse change to the status 
of each risk has the potential to place 
material financial stress on the Group. 
The risks have been evaluated, where possible, 
to assess the potential impact of each on the 
viability of the Group, should that risk arise 
in its unmitigated form. The potential inputs 
have been included, where appropriate, as 
sensitivities to the Plan and considered by the 
Board as part of the approval process required 
before the Plan is adopted by the Group.
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL FORECASTS
The Plan considers the Group’s financial 
position, performance, cash flows, covenant 
compliance and other key financial ratios 
over the period and was most recently 
updated to reflect current market and 
environment conditions in December 2016.
In addition, the Plan considers the financial 
impact of the Opus acquisition and the 
implications for the earnings, cash flows 
and working capital position of the Group. 
The Plan includes certain assumptions, 
the most material of which relate to 
commodity market price curves and 
levels of subsidy support available to 
the Group through the generation of 
biomass-backed renewable power. 
The Plan is subject to stress testing, which 
involves the construction of reasonably 
foreseeable scenarios, including those 
aligned to the principal risks, which test the 
robustness of the Plan when key variables 
are flexed both individually and in unison. 
Where such a scenario suggests a risk 
to viability, the availability and quantum 
of mitigating actions is considered.
The Board considers the most significant 
of these scenarios in the assessment 
period to be a significant deterioration 
of commodity market prices, leading to 
a fall in the available price for power and 
thus a fall in the margins available to the 
Group from its power generation activities. 
This has been considered in the Plan 
and the Board is satisfied that in such a 
scenario sufficient actions could be taken 
to preserve the viability of the Group.
AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE FUNDING
The sources of funding available to 
the Group are set out in note 4.3 to the 
consolidated financial statements (see 
page 142). The Board expects these 
sources, along with cash flows generated 
by the Group from its normal operations, 
to provide adequate levels of funding to 
support the execution of the Group’s Plan.
The £375 million loan facility entered during 
February 2017 to finance the Opus acquisition 
matures during July 2018 and the debt 
drawn will therefore need to be refinanced 
or renewed during the three-year period. 
As reported on page 142 a full review of the 
Group’s sources of funding is now underway 
and the Board remains confident that 
this will result in adequate funding being 
available beyond the viability horizon. 
EXPECTATIONS
The directors have considered all the 
factors in their assessment of viability over 
the next three years, including the latest 
Plan, scenario analysis, levels of funding, 
control environment and the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group. The 
directors have also considered the availability 
of actions within their control in the event 
of plausible negative scenarios occurring. 
They have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year period of their assessment.
STRATEGIC REPORT
55
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The Board is responsible for defining risk 
appetite and ensuring the effectiveness of 
risk management and internal controls across 
the Group. The Group has a comprehensive 
system of governance controls to manage 
key risks.
GROUP APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has a Risk Management Policy in 
place, approved by the Board which defines 
the Group’s approach to risk management. 
The key elements of the Policy are as follows:
 
– identify principal risks that threaten the 
achievement of our strategic objectives 
then assess their significance to the 
business;
 
– put in place appropriate mitigating 
controls to manage identified risks to an 
acceptable level;
 
– escalate and report principal risk and 
control information to support 
management decision making;
 
– assign responsibility and define 
accountabilities for risk management and 
put these into practice across the Group;
 
– continuously monitor the changing risk 
environment, the Group’s principal risks, 
the effectiveness of mitigation strategies 
and the application of the risk framework.
The approach manages rather than 
eliminates the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and provides 
reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The risk management governance 
structure includes seven business risk 
management committees (RMCs).
Each RMC reports to the executive 
management of that area, assisting in the 
management of their risks. In turn, each 
executive is responsible for their risks 
to the Group Executive Committee.
Each RMC is responsible for ensuring that 
all risks associated with its specific area of 
the business are identified, analysed and 
managed systematically and appropriately. 
Each RMC has terms of reference that 
require local level risk policies and control 
systems to be approved, implemented and 
monitored in order to ensure that activities 
are commensurate with the risk appetite 
established by the Board, are adequately 
resourced and comply with applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements. Each RMC reports 
to the Board annually on the management of 
risks within the scope of its responsibilities.
RMCs review new and emerging risks and 
changes to existing risks. A top down review 
of risks is performed by each RMC and by 
the Group Executive Committee on at least 
an annual basis. New risks are also identified 
during development of the Business Plan.
A new Group risk scoring matrix has 
been adopted in 2016 to align scoring 
across all RMCs. Risks are scored based 
on impact and probability as follows:
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
PROBABILITY
Almost  
certain
Likely
Possible
Unlikely
Rare
Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
IMPACT
Critical risk
High risk
Medium risk
Low risk
Negligible risk
56
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
The Group Executive Committee and the 
Board review reporting on critical and high 
risks from each RMC at least annually and 
from Group Risk biannually. In addition, the 
Audit Committee reviews the suitability and 
effectiveness of risk management processes 
and controls on behalf of the Board.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Group has a comprehensive and well-
defined internal control system with clear 
structures, delegated authority levels and 
accountability. The Board has adopted a 
Schedule of Matters which are required to 
be brought to it for decision. The internal 
control system is designed to ensure that 
the directors maintain full and effective 
control over all significant strategic, 
financial and organisational issues.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board 
has implemented a programme of internal 
audits of different aspects of the Group’s 
activities. The programme is developed 
based on an assessment of the key risks 
of the Group, the existing assurance and 
controls in place to manage the risks and 
to the core financial control framework.
CHANGE IN RISK PROFILE
Risks are reported to the Board and disclosed 
in the annual report and accounts under eight 
principal risk headings. This has increased 
from five principal risks disclosed in 2015.
 – Information Systems and Security risks 
have been included in their own right in 
2016, rather than being combined under a 
Corporate risk heading as in 2015. Corporate 
Risk has been removed.
 
– Environment, Health and Safety risk 
has been separated out from Plant 
Operating Risk. 
 
– Delivery of our Growth Strategy has been 
added to reflect the adoption of the 
Group’s new growth strategy and the 
focus of senior management on ensuring 
its successful implementation. 
 
– Whilst People risk has always existed for 
the Group, it is now a principal risk as there 
is increased reliance on key staff due to the 
pace of strategic change. 
The results of each internal audit are 
documented in a report for internal distribution 
and action. A full copy of the report is 
distributed to the Group Executive Committee 
and the Chair of the Audit Committee, with 
an executive summary going to the other 
members of the Audit Committee. Each report 
includes management responses to Internal 
Audit’s findings and recommendations and an 
agreement of the actions that management 
will take to improve the risk management and 
the internal control framework. In addition 
to the results of work undertaken by Internal 
Audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself 
that an action plan is in place and management 
are addressing issues raised by the external 
auditor in their yearly management letter.
Based on the reporting from the RMCs 
and from the Audit Committee in 2016, the 
Board determined that it was not aware 
of any significant deficiency or material 
weakness in the system of internal control.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES
Drax Group plc Board
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
ASSURANCE
ACCOUNTABILITY
GROUP  
RISK 
GROUP 
EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE
Group 
Corporate 
Services 
RMC
Haven Power 
RMC
Drax Biomass 
RMC
Billington 
Bioenergy
RMC
Drax Power
Currency and 
Commodity
RMC
Corporate
Services
RMC
Safety, Health 
Environment 
and Production 
Integrity 
Committee
STRATEGIC REPORT
57
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
1. Strategic risks
Context
The Group has adopted a new policy 
designed to reduce the exposure to 
commodity price movements and 
strengthen the long-term future of 
the Group. The strategy includes 
acquisitions and expansion into new 
activities with their associated risks.
Risk and impact
 
– The benefits from our strategy may not 
be realised fully if we do not integrate 
Opus effectively.
 
– Development of the four OCGT plants is 
dependent on winning contracts in 
capacity market auctions which is not 
certain.
 
– The markets where we operate and are 
looking to grow are constantly evolving, 
making the identification and 
implementation of further opportunities 
for growth more challenging.
Mitigations
 
– A rigorous programme 
management framework has 
been established to drive 
successful integration of Opus. 
 
– Significant development costs 
for the OCGT plants will only be 
incurred if a contract is won in a 
capacity market auction.
 
– We continually analyse the 
changing dynamics of the 
markets in which we operate.
 
– A programme of research and 
development into new 
technologies, products and 
markets has been established.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– A new purpose and strategy 
and the acquisition of Opus 
and four OCGT 
development projects.
 
– We are actively pursuing 
potential acquisitions of 
pellet plant facilities. 
Strategic 
priorities
Targeted 
long-term 
growth
58
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
2. Political and regulatory risks
Context
We remain vulnerable to changes 
in Government policy. The energy 
sector is subject to detailed legislation 
and regulation that is frequently 
changing and ever more stringent.
Risk and impact
 
– Changes to UK policy and regulations 
may reduce our ability to deliver our 
forecast earnings from our base 
business and our growth strategy, 
putting pressure on our financial  
results and cash flows.
 
– More complex and challenging 
regulations could lead to 
non-compliance.
Mitigations
 
– Engagement with politicians 
across the political spectrum 
and Government officials to 
influence thinking. 
 
– Communication of our socio-
economic value to the UK. 
 
– Working with think tanks and 
specialist consultants to 
establish Drax as a thought 
leader on priority policy and 
regulatory issues. 
 
– Engagement with regulators to 
ensure compliance with 
regulatory requirements.
 
– Working with Energy UK to 
develop voluntary codes of 
practice in retail.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– The Government has 
confirmed that biomass 
conversions will not be 
eligible to participate in the 
2017 CfD auction. 
 
– The Government has 
confirmed the Carbon Price 
Floor will remain 
unchanged at its current 
level until 2020/21.
 
– Government has issued a 
consultation on the closure 
of all coal stations in the UK 
by 2025.
 
– Brexit has created 
uncertainty over UK 
participation in, and 
influence over, discussions 
on new EU legislation
 
– The growing importance of 
principles-based regulation 
in the retail sector was 
emphasised by Ofgem’s 
plans to extend the scope 
of principles in the supply 
licence, and by significant 
penalties on suppliers for 
failures under the standards 
and conduct principle. 
 
– There has been an increase 
in the momentum of the 
smart meter roll-out. Ofgem 
has been consistent on the 
importance of achieving 
the roll-out timetable and 
has fined one company for 
failures under the related 
advanced meter 
programme.
 
– The obligation from the 
CMA enquiry on improving 
customer engagement and 
competition, to disclose 
prices of all acquisition and 
retention contracts for 
microbusinesses, will result 
in increased costs.
Strategic 
priorities
Higher 
Quality 
Diversified 
Earnings
Operational 
Excellence
STRATEGIC REPORT
59
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
3. Biomass acceptability risks
Context 
The biomass market is still relatively 
new, sustainability legislation at both an 
EU and UK level is evolving, and public 
understanding of the benefits of the 
technology needs to be improved. 
Risk and impact
 
– EU or UK sustainability policy changes 
could be excessively onerous and make 
it difficult for us to comply with policy 
requirements and claim subsidy in 
support of economic biomass 
generation.
 
– Detractors and some eNGOs have been 
known to act in concert to try and 
influence policymakers against wider 
biomass use and future biomass 
conversions, which could make it 
difficult to gain support for further 
conversions.
Mitigations
 
– Increased engagement across all 
European Institutions 
(Commission, Parliament, 
Council), and relevant UK 
Government departments.
 
– Strong coalition with other 
utilities and those engaged in 
forest industries including using 
EU and US forestry expertise to 
brief Brussels.
 
– Increased transparency in how 
we evidence sustainability.
 
– Working with academics, think 
tanks and specialist consultants 
to improve understanding and 
analysis of the benefits of 
biomass. 
 
– Engagement with key NGOs to 
discuss issues of contention.
 
– Media, including social media, 
presence to respond in the 
public domain to eNGOs.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– UK sustainability standards 
became mandatory in 
December 2015 and we 
have demonstrated full 
compliance to date
 
– The European Commission 
has published its draft 
biomass sustainability 
criteria as part of the new 
Renewable Energy 
Directive (so called Winter 
Package), following 
extensive consultation. The 
proposal includes 
substantial elements similar 
to the UK’s existing 
sustainability regime but is 
still subject to Council and 
Parliament scrutiny and 
negotiation.
Strategic 
priorities
Higher 
Quality 
Diversified 
Earnings
Operational 
Excellence
4. Plant operating risks
Context 
The reliability of our operating plant is 
central to our ability to create value for 
the Group.
Risk and impact
 
– Single point failures of plant could 
result in forced outages in our 
generation or pellet production plants. 
 
– Changes in generation running regimes 
expose us to new and emerging 
technical risks which could result 
in higher than forecast forced 
outage levels. 
 
– Successful generation using biomass 
requires stringent quality throughout 
the supply chain, which continues to 
evolve and mature. Poor quality could 
result in unplanned loss of generation. 
Mitigations
 
– Comprehensive risk-based plant 
investment and maintenance 
programme.
 
– Adequate insurance in place to 
cover losses from plant failure 
where possible.
 
– Significant research and 
development on the production 
of wood pellets as well as the 
handling and burning of 
biomass.
 
– Full testing of all biomass 
supplies prior to acceptance 
and the use of contractual 
rights to reject out of 
specification cargoes.
 
– Stringent safety procedures in 
place for handling biomass and 
dust management.
 
– Increased sampling and analysis 
through the supply chain to 
increase understanding of 
causes of fuel quality issues.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– The increase in 
intermittent generation 
has led to a reduction in 
transmission system 
stability and a more volatile 
pattern of running for our 
units, principally the coal 
units, which places 
additional thermal stress 
on the units. 
 
– Lack of demand in the 
biomass market is putting 
suppliers under price 
pressure which in turn 
could compromise pellet 
quality as suppliers look to 
reduce production costs. 
Strategic 
priorities
Operational 
Excellence
60
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
5. Trading and commodity risks
Context
The margins of our generation and 
retail businesses are influenced by 
commodity market movements, 
which are inherently volatile. 
Risk and impact
 
– Fluctuations in commodity prices, 
particularly gas and power, could result 
in lower margins and a reduction in cash 
flow in our generation business. 
 
– Drax Power may fail to secure future 
grid system services contracts which 
are a source of revenue diversity for 
the Group. 
 
– Following Brexit, foreign exchange rates 
have moved adversely against the 
pound sterling, which could result in 
higher costs on unhedged exposures in 
the mid-term. 
 
– The value of ROCs generated may be 
lower than forecast if the recycle value 
outturns below BEIS’ projections due to 
higher than anticipated renewable 
generation. 
Mitigations
 
– High levels of forward power 
sales for 2017.
 
– Hedging retail commodity price 
exposures when fixed price 
sales are executed with 
third parties.
 
– Wood pellets purchased under 
long-term contracts with 
fixed pricing.
 
– Significant forward foreign 
exchange hedging in place.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– Low power prices and more 
intermittent generation 
have reduced economic 
off-peak running, especially 
for coal-fired generation. 
 
– Prices for wood pellets 
were depressed in 2016 due 
to oversupply in the market.
 
– Sterling exchange rates 
against the euro and dollar 
have experienced 
significant adverse 
movements since Brexit 
and remain weak. 
 
– Low Recycle Fund outturn 
for 2015/16 RO compliance 
year as ROC production 
exceeded BEIS estimates. 
Strategic 
priorities
Management 
of 
Commodity 
Market 
Exposure
6. Information systems and security risks
Context 
The availability, integrity and security of our 
IT systems and company data are essential 
to support operations of the Group. 
Risk and impact
 
– Non-availability of IT systems, or a 
breach in their security, could result in 
the inability to operate systems or our 
information could be compromised. 
 
– If our IT architecture does not meet the 
increasingly demanding and complex 
requirements of the Group, we may not 
deliver our growth plans effectively.
Mitigations
 
– Business continuity, disaster 
recovery and crisis management 
plans in place across the Group.
 
– Cyber security measures, 
including a defence, detect, 
remedy strategy, in place.
 
– IT transformation programme in 
place to deliver upgraded 
architecture.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– Significant investment in 
our critical IT systems has 
improved the general 
resilience of the core 
systems.
 
– Development of the IT 
transformation programme 
which is now being 
implemented.
Strategic 
priorities
Operational 
Excellence
STRATEGIC REPORT
61
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7. People risks
Context 
We need to ensure we have the right 
people in place with the leadership and 
specialist skills to help the Group to 
compete, innovate and grow.
Risk and impact
 
– Our performance and the delivery of our 
strategy is dependent upon having 
strong, high-quality leaders and 
engaged and talented people at all levels 
of the organisation. 
Mitigations
 
– Retention and talent 
development strategies in place.
 
– Regular staff surveys to monitor 
engagement levels and 
alignment of people with Group 
values.
 
– Career management 
programme.
 
– Regular staff communications. 
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– Development of the new 
strategy HR identified areas 
across the Group that will 
require strengthening as 
the strategy is executed.
Strategic 
priorities
Operational 
Excellence
8. Environment, health and safety risks
Context 
The health and safety risks of the 
environment in which we operate make  
our strong standards and culture crucially 
important.
Risk and impact
 
– The health and safety environment is 
subject to numerous and evolving 
health, safety and environmental laws, 
regulations and standards. If we do not 
operate safely and comply with 
regulations the wellbeing and 
satisfaction of our workforce and levels 
of outage could be adversely affected.
Mitigations
 
– Well embedded health and 
safety systems based on world 
leading systems
 
– Continuous review of health and 
safety systems particularly as we 
increase our experience and 
operating knowledge of 
handling and burning biomass.
Movement
>
Changes in factors impacting 
risk in 2016
 
– World class personal safety 
performance for the year 
with TRIR well above the 
industry benchmark.
 
– No legislative changes in 
the year.
Strategic 
priorities
Operational 
Excellence
Strategic report
The Strategic report is set out on pages 1–61 of this document and was approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2017.
Dorothy Thompson
Chief Executive, Drax Group
Will Gardiner
Chief Financial Officer
62
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Dear Shareholder
I am delighted to have completed my first full year as Chairman of the 
Board of your Company during 2016, and to be making my report on 
governance during that period. 
Directorate changes
The past year has been an important year of change in the Board. Andy 
Koss, Chief Executive of Drax Power – our power generation business 
– was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016, and Will Gardiner who 
was appointed Chief Financial Officer in November 2015, has 
completed his first full year of Board membership. 
I am delighted to say that both Will and Andy have made a strong, 
dynamic and positive contribution to the Company’s leadership in 
2016, along with playing a significant role in the development of our 
new strategy.
Lastly, Melanie Gee resigned from the Board following the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in April 2016. I thank her once again for the 
many valuable contributions she made during her three years as 
a director. 
Non-executive directors
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) sees one of the 
significant roles of non-executive directors as providing “constructive 
challenge and help in developing proposals on strategy”.
In this regard, one of the important elements of my role as Chairman  
is to ensure that the Board benefits from the skills and experience of 
non-executive directors who can strengthen its ability to deliver the 
leadership that your Company needs.
We therefore seek to appoint forward-looking non-executive  
directors from a diverse range of relevant backgrounds, who can  
bring experience and good judgement to the Board discussions. To 
complement and widen our non-executive skills, we will look to recruit 
two non-executive directors in 2017 who can support the Board.
First-class governance along 
with first-class management 
remain key to delivering Drax’s 
new strategy of creating 
sustainable value across 
the Group’s activities. 
We also continue to work hard to ensure that the Board is diverse  
in its widest sense, including gender diversity. Currently, 14% of your 
directors are female. This will remain one of the factors that the Board 
takes into consideration in making appointments in the future. 
Succession planning and diversity
Maintaining and improving the effectiveness of the Group’s succession 
planning process will be key to the success of the business in the 
future. Selecting and supporting the right individuals to lead the 
delivery of the Group’s new strategy, together with ensuring that the 
Board is constantly refreshed, are essential parts of this process.
The Board and I are confident that many of our future leaders are 
already working within the Group. That is one of the reasons why 
during 2017, in order to ensure that we identify and support our next 
generation of leaders, we will be implementing a new people strategy.
Along with the continued work of the Nominations Committee, this will 
help us to make the most of our “human capital” and continue to create 
opportunities for talented individuals with the right skills to take the 
Company forward over the years to come.
The current Board is performing strongly, and has the right expertise 
and experience to provide excellent leadership. However, as our new 
strategy comes into place and the Group grows, we may find that we 
need new skills. 
The Board and I are completely committed to ensuring that the Group 
has access to the brightest talents and the best leaders to deliver our 
strategy, whether those individuals come from within the Drax “family” 
or outside. One of the ways we ensure this happens is through linking 
the leadership team who helped develop the new strategy directly to 
the senior executives responsible for its day-to-day delivery.
GOVERNANCE
63
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The UK Corporate Governance Code and governance at Drax
Drax reports against the 2014 version of the Code. In 2016, we ran a 
tender process for the appointment of auditors as discussed in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015. I am pleased to inform you that we 
were fully compliant with all of the Code’s provisions through the entire 
period of the reporting year and until the date of approval of this report.
As well as ensuring that we maintain the correct blend of skills and 
knowledge on the Board, we also continue to strive to improve the way 
we work together to overcome the challenges the business faces, and 
to develop and deliver strategies for future success.
This means that we are constantly reviewing our governance 
structures and processes to ensure that they are fit for purpose, and 
that good governance remains at the heart of the Group. This is not 
only about doing “the right thing”, but also about doing it “the right 
way”. Over a number of years, we have established a strong set of 
values within the Group. We express these as the acronym “HEAT”, 
standing for honest, energised, achieving and together. They provide 
a clear behavioural and ethical compass for everyone within the 
Group in our daily working lives.
The following section concerns the structure and processes that 
support our corporate governance and the ways in which they have 
operated during the year ended 31 December 2016.
 
My role as Chairman
As Chairman, my brief is to make sure that your Company always has 
a Board which works effectively, efficiently and collectively under my 
leadership. One key part in achieving this is ensuring that the Board 
benefits from the right dynamics and good, open communication.
This depends on every director playing his or her part to contribute  
fully to discussions and debates, and to provide constructive challenge 
to their colleagues. Thanks to the diverse range of expertise and 
experience represented on our Board, I am pleased to report that it 
is functioning very effectively.
The relationship between Chairman and Chief Executive is crucial for 
the successful management of any company. In my role as Chairman, 
I speak frequently with Dorothy Thompson, our Group Chief Executive. 
We regularly discuss the issues being dealt with by the executive team, 
and any that need to be discussed by the Board. I set the agenda for 
the Board, and make sure that sufficient time is allowed to cover any 
matters we need to consider – including the discussion, formulation 
and execution of strategy.
It is also part of my remit to understand how shareholders view the 
performance of the business. The Group Chief Executive, the Chief 
Financial Officer and our brokers keep the Board very closely appraised 
of shareholders’ views. In addition, I do personally engage with 
shareholders whenever I, the Board, or individual shareholders feel 
this would be helpful. 
Board and committee evaluation
In order to continue to make the Board more effective, I commissioned 
in 2016 an externally facilitated evaluation of the performance of the 
Board and its committees. This will help ensure that the Company is 
even better placed to meet the challenges it will face in the years to 
come. You can find details of this process and its conclusions in the 
report of the Nominations Committee on page 74. One of its 
conclusions was for the Board to invite advisers and external experts 
to selectively attend Board meetings to share their perspective on 
the business and the markets in which we operate.
Key areas of focus
Following the completion of our project to become a predominantly 
biomass-fuelled generator, and the approval of our Contract for 
Difference (CfD), the Board in 2016 was firmly focused on developing a 
new corporate strategy designed to deliver success for the long-term. 
At the heart of this strategy is the creation of a long-term, higher 
quality, diversified earnings base, strongly linked to the Company’s 
continued commitment to a lower-carbon future for UK energy. The 
Board identified two major opportunities to realise that strategy in 
2016. The first, the acquisition of Opus Energy (Opus), gives us access 
to a successful, established and profitable retail trading base providing 
electricity and gas to small to medium-sized businesses across the UK, 
which will complement our existing offering through Haven Power 
(Haven). The second comprises four projects to build rapid-response 
Open Cycle Gas Turbines (OCGT) on sites in England and Wales, 
providing the flexible supply of electricity that the growth of 
intermittent renewables requires, ensuring that the UK system remains 
stable. As ever, we will remain committed to advocating the benefits of 
sustainable biomass in the shape of compressed wood pellets.
After a full year in post, I am even more confident that Drax Group has 
the right team in place to lead today, and is identifying the talented 
men and women who will lead tomorrow. 
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
THE BOARD
EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
NOMINATIONS
COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Business unit
management Boards
Drax Power
Haven Power
Drax Biomass
Billington Bioenergy
PG.77–81
More detail in 
the Audit Committee 
report
PG.74–76
More detail in 
the Nominations
Committee report
PG.82–107
More detail in
the Remuneration
Committee report
64
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
Role of the Board
The Board determines: the Group’s strategy; the Group’s appetite 
for risk; the risk management policies; the annual plan and key 
performance indicators; acquisitions and disposals and other 
transactions outside delegated limits; material changes to accounting 
policies or practices; significant financial decisions; capital structure 
and dividend policy; shareholder communications; prosecution, 
defence or settlement of material litigation; Group remuneration 
policy; the terms of reference of Board committees; and the Board 
structure, composition and succession.
Terms of reference
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions and 
formal terms of reference for its committees. These are reviewed 
annually and are available to view on the Group’s website at 
www.drax.com.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its 
committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in 
General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee or 
otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of delegated 
authorities approved by the Board. 
How the Board functions
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the 
Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management. 
It also receives industry, regulatory and topical updates from external 
experts and advisers, from time to time. Papers are distributed in 
advance of Board and committee meetings, to brief directors. 
Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense. During 2016, no 
director sought independent professional advice.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters, 
ensuring good information flows within the Board, its committees, the 
Executive Committee and senior management. He ensures that Board 
processes are complied with and is also responsible for compliance 
with the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and 
the Companies Act.
The Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) give the directors 
power to authorise conflicts of interest. The Board has an effective 
procedure to identify potential conflicts of interest, consider them 
for authorisation and record them. The Articles also allow the Board 
to exercise voting rights in Group companies without restriction 
(for example to appoint a director to a Group company without this 
counting as a conflict requiring authorisation).
The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of 
legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Nominations Committee report contains details of the selection, 
appointment, review and re-election of directors, as well as the Board 
performance review and directors’ development.
Board composition
All of the directors listed on page 65 served throughout the year. 
Melanie Gee served as a director until her retirement on 20 April 2016. 
Each of those listed, except for Melanie Gee, remained directors as at 
the date of the approval of this report. Biographical details of the 
directors appear on pages 68–70.
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016
DIVERSITY
MALE
86%
NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
43%
45–50
14%
0–3
43%
50–55
29%
55–60
14%
60–65
14%
65–70
29%
6–9
14%
3–6
29%
9–12
14%
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
43%
CHAIRMAN
14%
14%
FEMALE
COMPOSITION
AGE PROFILE (YEARS)
TENURE (YEARS)
GOVERNANCE
65
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
THE BOARD IN 2016
Directors
Philip Cox CBE (Chairman)
Tim Cobbold (Independent non-executive director) 
Will Gardiner (Chief Financial Officer)
Andy Koss (Chief Executive, Drax Power)
Melanie Gee (retired as a director on 20 April 2016)
David Lindsell (Senior independent non-executive director) 
Dorothy Thompson CBE (Group Chief Executive) 
Tony Thorne (Independent non-executive director)
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board.
Board diversity
As at 31 December 2016, there were six male directors and one female 
director on the Board.
Number of meetings held
 
– The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year. 
 
– In 2016, an additional six meetings were held by telephone to 
address matters requiring formal decisions. 
 
– In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider strategy. 
Board attendance 2016
The table below shows the number of meetings and the directors’ attendance during 2016.
Date appointed as a director 
and member of the Board
Maximum 
possible
meetings(1)
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Tim Cobbold
27 September 2010
8
8
100%
Philip Cox
1 January 2015
8
8
100%
Will Gardiner
16 November 2015
8
8
100%
Andy Koss
1 January 2016
8
8
100%
Melanie Gee (retired as a director on 20 April 2016)
1 January 2013
3
3
100%
David Lindsell
1 December 2008
8
8
100%
Dorothy Thompson
20 October 2005
8
7
88%
Tony Thorne
29 June 2010
8
8
100%
Note:
(1) The maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
66
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES CONTINUED
Committees of the Board in 2016
The table below details the standing committees established by the Board and their membership:
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive 
Committee(1)
Tim Cobbold
Member
Member
Member
–
Philip Cox
Invited to attend
Chairman
Member
–
Will Gardiner
Invited to attend
–
–
Member
Andy Koss 
–
–
–
Member
Melanie Gee (retired as a director on 20 April 2016)
Member
Member
Member
–
David McCallum(2)
Secretary
Secretary
Secretary
Secretary
David Lindsell
Chairman
Member
Member
Dorothy Thompson
Invited to attend
Invited to attend
Invited to attend
Chairman
Tony Thorne
Member
Member
Chairman
–
Notes:
(1) The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group. In addition to those named above, Pete Madden (President and Chief Executive, Drax Biomass), 
Matthew Rivers (Director of Corporate Affairs), Peter Bennell (Chief Executive, Haven Power) until 1 September and Jonathan Kini (Chief Executive, Drax Retail) from 1 September, 
were also members in 2016.
(2) David McCallum is the Group Company Secretary (appointed 1 July 2016).
Details of the work of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees are given in their respective reports on pages 74 to 107. 
The committees’ terms of reference are reviewed annually by each committee and then by the Board and are available on the Group’s  
website at www.drax.com.
Time commitment
Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is expected 
to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to this role.
Under the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment, each is 
expected to commit 12 to 15 full days a year. That includes attendance 
at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy day and at 
least one site visit per year. In addition, they are expected to devote 
appropriate preparation time ahead of each meeting. The time 
commitment expected in respect of their membership of the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration committees, is an additional three to 
four full days a year in each case. Non-executive directors also spend 
time with management, to maintain their knowledge of the developing 
business and to understand the operational challenges being faced.
Corporate governance
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, 
details of which are given in this report.
The various sections of this report summarise certain provisions of  
the Company’s Articles and the Companies Act 2006. The relevant 
provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted  
if further information is required.
GOVERNANCE
67
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
It is the Board’s view that throughout the period commencing on 
1 January 2016, the Company has complied in full with the principles 
of the Code issued in September 2014. In respect of the requirement to 
put the external audit out to tender, a tender process for the external 
audit took place during 2016 and as a result of this process, Deloitte LLP 
was reappointed as external auditor for the 2017 financial statements. 
Directors’ interests, indemnity arrangements and other  
significant agreements
Other than a service contract between the executive directors 
and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee 
report, no director had a material interest at any time during the 
year in any significant contract with the Company or any of its 
subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors 
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment because 
of a takeover bid.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive 
director. None of the non-executive directors who served during the 
year had any material business or other relationship with the Group, 
and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their 
independence of character and judgement. The Board therefore 
considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent, 
in accordance with Code provision B.1.1.
Relations with key stakeholder groups
Communication with all our stakeholders is an essential part of our 
business. Details of communications with our stakeholders are 
contained in the Stakeholder engagement section of this report 
beginning on page 46, with further details of our communications 
with investors set out below.
The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship 
with the Company’s major shareholders, communicates directly with 
them and offers them the opportunity to meet any other directors. 
This enables the Board to understand their views on the Group and 
its governance.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from 
post-results investor meetings conducted by the Group Chief 
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer. These took place following 
both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2016. 
The Group engages Makinson Cowell, part of the KPMG Group, 
to advise and assist with communications with shareholders.
The Company’s private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, 
approximately 0.67% of the issued share capital. The Board is as 
interested in their views as it is in the views of institutional and 
corporate shareholders. All shareholders are free to put questions 
to the Board at the AGM. Questions asked in person at the AGM will 
receive a verbal response whenever possible. Otherwise, a written 
response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM. 
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written 
response. Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity 
to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information 
service also appears as soon as practicable on the Group’s website 
at www.drax.com.
The directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. Pages 1 to 61 provide 
an assessment of the Group’s affairs.
The Annual report and accounts is available to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the AGM. Registered shareholders receive a Form 
of Proxy which allows them to vote for or against, or to abstain on each 
resolution. Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are announced to 
the London Stock Exchange and appear on the Group’s website as 
soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
68
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
PHILIP COX CBE
Chairman
TIM COBBOLD
Independent non-executive director
Responsibilities and skills:
Philip has significant board experience in both 
executive and non-executive capacities, and 
extensive experience in the power sector.
Responsibilities and skills:
Tim’s blend of financial and engineering 
experience means that he is well placed to 
contribute significantly to the Board and 
its committees. His role as a serving Chief 
Executive in a different sector provides an 
added dimension to his contribution.
Appointment to the Board:
January 2015.
Appointment to the Board:
September 2010.
Appointment as Chairman:
April 2015.
Committee membership:
Nominations (Chair) and Remuneration 
Committees.
Committee membership:
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees.
Current external appointments:
GPG, a joint venture between the Kuwait 
Investment Authority and Gas Natural Fenosa 
– a power generation company focused on 
emerging markets (Non-executive Chairman).
Current external appointments:
UBM plc (Chief Executive).
Previous roles:
Executive
International Power plc (Chief Executive 
Officer). 
Ivensys plc (Senior Vice President, Operational 
Planning). 
Siebe PLC (Finance Director).
Non-executive
Meggitt PLC (Non-executive director). 
PPL Corporation, a US-listed energy utility 
company (Non-executive director).
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC (Non-
executive director, Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee).
Wincanton plc (Non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee).
Talen, a US-listed power generation company 
(Non-executive director and Chair of the Audit 
Committee).
Previous roles:
Executive
De La Rue plc (Chief Executive).
Chloride Group plc (Chief Executive and 
following Emerson Electric’s takeover of 
Chloride, Tim held a senior position in Emerson, 
responsible for the Chloride Group of 
companies).
Smiths Group plc, a number of senior financial 
and operational management positions over an 
18 year period.
Non-executive
None.
Qualifications:
MA in Geography.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales (FCA).
Qualifications:
BSc (Hons) in Mechanical Engineering.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales (FCA).
GOVERNANCE
69
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
DAVID LINDSELL
Senior Independent non-executive director
TONY THORNE
Independent non-executive director
Responsibilities and skills:
David’s recent and relevant experience in the 
areas of finance and audit are a significant 
asset to the Board in his role as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Responsibilities and skills:
Tony’s experience of operating in different 
geographical territories is of great value to the 
Board as the Group’s operations develop.
Appointment to the Board:
December 2008.
Appointment to the Board:
June 2010.
Committee membership:
Audit (Chair), Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees.
Committee membership:
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration (Chair) 
Committees.
Current external appointments:
Premier Oil plc (Non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee). 
Cancer Research UK (Trustee and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee).
University of the Arts, London (Deputy Chair of 
Governors).
Current external appointments:
South East Coast Ambulance Service 
(Chairman).
Previous roles:
Executive
Ernst & Young LLP (Partner).
Non-executive
Financial Reporting Review Panel 
(Deputy Chairman).
HellermannTyton Group PLC (Non-executive 
director).
Previous roles:
Executive
DS Smith plc (Chief Executive and an executive 
director).
SCA Packaging Limited (President).
Shell International (Worked throughout the 
world in senior management roles, including 
strategic planning and President of the Shell 
companies in Mexico).
Non-executive
None.
Qualifications:
MA in History
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales (FCA).
Qualifications: 
BSc (Hons) in Agricultural Economics.
70
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
DOROTHY THOMPSON CBE
Chief Executive, Drax Group
WILL GARDINER
Chief Financial Officer
ANDY KOSS
Chief Executive, Drax Power
Responsibilities and skills:
Dorothy is responsible for all aspects of running 
the Group’s business, including developing an 
appropriate business strategy for Board 
approval and securing its timely and effective 
implementation. She leads the executive team 
and takes responsibility for important external 
relationships with customers, suppliers, 
regulatory agencies and Government bodies.
Responsibilities and skills:
Will is responsible for the financial 
management of the Group, and for 
relationships with the Group’s bankers and 
financial advisers. He has responsibility for the 
Financial Control and Planning, Corporate 
Finance and Investor Relations, Strategy and 
New Business, Group IT and Group Risk and 
Internal Audit functions.
Responsibilities and skills:
Andy is responsible for the operation of the 
power plant and equipment. This includes all 
aspects of safety management, plant integrity, 
plant operations, engineering support, 
maintenance and plant design. He leads the 
power generation business unit which 
maximises shareholder value by driving 
efficiency and profitability.
Appointment to the Board:
October 2005, having joined the Group in 
September 2005.
Appointment to the Board:
November 2015.
Appointment to the Board:
January 2016, having joined the Group in June 
2005.
Committee membership:
Executive Committee (Chair).
Committee membership:
Executive Committee.
Committee membership:
Executive Committee and Drax Power 
Management Board (Chair).
Current external appointments:
Court of the Bank of England (Non-executive 
director).
Eaton Corporation plc (Non-executive 
director).
Current external appointments:
Qardio plc (Non-executive director).
Current external appointments:
None.
Previous roles:
Executive
InterGen NV (Head of the European business 
and responsible for the management and 
operation of four gas-fired power plants, 
totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across the 
UK and the Netherlands). 
Powergen plc (Assistant Group Treasurer).
Non-executive 
Johnson Matthey Plc
Previous roles:
Executive
CSR plc (Chief Financial Officer) 
BSkyB (Divisional Finance Director) 
Easynet Group plc (Chief Financial Officer) 
JP Morgan (Senior roles in the investment 
banking division, specialising in the telecoms 
and technology sections).
Non-executive 
None.
Previous roles: 
Executive
Drax Group (Director of Strategy, Head of 
Investor Relations, Group Treasurer and Head 
of Risk) 
Provident Financial plc (Deputy Group 
Treasurer) 
UBS, Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, Lehman 
Brothers (Various investment banking roles) 
Coopers & Lybrand (Chartered Accountant).
Non-executive 
None.
Qualifications:
BSc (Hons) and MSc in Economics.
Qualifications:
BA Harvard College in Russian and Soviet 
Studies. 
MA John Hopkins School of Advanced 
International Studies in International Relations.
Qualifications: 
BSc (Hons) in Maths, Operational Research, 
Statistics and Economics. 
Associate of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales (ACA). 
Member of the Association of Corporate 
Treasurers (MCT).
GOVERNANCE
71
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
MATTHEW RIVERS
Director of Corporate Affairs
PETE MADDEN
Chief Executive, Drax Biomass
JONATHAN KINI 
Chief Executive, Drax Retail
Responsibilities and skills: 
Matthew is responsible for the Group’s 
sustainability policy, strategy and delivery of 
our essential assurance in this area, as well as 
for the Communications, Public Affairs and 
Regulation and Markets teams.
Responsibilities and skills:
Pete guides the business strategy and 
oversees day-to-day operations at two pellet 
plants and a port facility in the South Eastern 
United States, ensuring that they are 
environmentally sound, safe and 
professionally managed.
Responsibilities and skills:
Jonathan oversees business operations and 
champions Drax’s retail strategy across Haven 
and Opus. He is responsible for pursuing 
increased business growth through small to 
medium-sized enterprise (SME) sectors, and for 
sustaining and growing Drax Retail’s industrial 
and commercial (I&C) customer base. 
Appointment to the Executive Committee: 
October 2013, having joined the Group in 
November 2011.
Appointment to the Executive Committee:
January 2016, having joined the Group in 
March 2015.
Appointment to the Executive Committee:
September 2016, having joined the Group in 
January 2016.
Committee membership:
Executive Committee and Billington Bioenergy 
(Chair).
Committee membership:
Executive Committee and Drax Biomass Inc.
Committee membership:
Executive Committee, Haven and Opus 
management boards (Chair) 
Current external appointments: 
None.
Current external appointments:
University of Georgia Center for Forest 
Business (Member, Advisory Board).
US Industrial Pellet Association (USIPA)
(Member of the Board).
Forest History Society (Member of the Board)
Current external appointments: 
None.
Previous roles:
Executive
UPM (Finland) (Director – Overseas Wood and 
Biomass Sourcing, Director – Energy Biomass). 
UPM Tilhill (UK) (Managing Director – for the 
UK’s largest private sector forest management 
and timber harvesting business).
Forestal Oriental (Uruguay) (Managing Director 
– responsible for plantation management and 
wood supply).
Non-executive
None.
Previous roles:
Executive
Plum Creek (USA) A number of roles including: 
Vice President, Renewable Energy and Supply 
Chain; Vice President, Operations Support; 
and Director, Regional Marketing, Operations, 
Resource Management, Materials 
Management and Corporation Planning.
Non-executive
None.
Previous roles:
Executive
Vodafone (Director of SME)
Virgin Media (Various commercial roles)
Non-executive
None.
Qualifications:
BSc (For) Hons, Forestry Aberdeen.
MBA, Strathclyde.
Fellow Institute of Chartered Foresters.
Chartered Environmentalist.
Qualifications:
BA Marlboro College.
MS (Forestry) University of New Hampshire.
MBA University of New Hampshire.
Qualifications:
Bsc (Hons) in Mathematics, University of 
Manchester.
MBA, Henley Management College.
ACMA (CIMA qualified)
DIVERSITY
MALE
83%
BUSINESS UNIT
OPERATIONS
43%
GROUP
OPERATIONS
40%
GROUP CHIEF
EXECUTIVE (CHAIR)
17%
17%
FEMALE
COMPOSITION
72
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee
Each Drax business unit runs under its own management team and the 
shared services needed to support them are provided centrally 
through the Group Corporate function.
The Executive Committee focuses on the Group’s strategy, financial 
structure, planning and performance, succession planning, 
organisational development and Group-wide policies.
Composition
With the exception of Jonathan Kini, Chief Executive, Drax Retail 
(who was appointed a member in September 2016) all of those listed 
below served on the Executive Committee throughout the year and 
all continued to be members at the date of this report. Biographical 
details of Executive Committee members appear on page 70 
(executive directors) and page 71 (senior management). Peter Bennell, 
who was Chief Executive, Haven Power and a member of the  
Executive Committee, retired in September 2016. 
Executive Committee composition at 31 December 2016
Executive Committee members
Will Gardiner
Jonathan Kini
Andy Koss
Pete Madden
Matthew Rivers
Dorothy Thompson CBE
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executive 
Committee.
Executive Committee diversity at 31 December 2016
Executive Committee diversity
There are five male members and one female member of the Executive 
Committee.
Number of meetings
The Executive Committee has 12 scheduled meetings each calendar 
year and arranges additional meetings if needed.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
DOROTHY THOMPSON
WILL GARDINER
Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer 
PETE MADDEN
President and 
Chief Executive,
Drax Biomass
ANDY KOSS
Chief Executive,
Drax Power
JONATHAN KINI
Chief Executive, 
Drax Retail
MATTHEW RIVERS
Director of 
Corporate Affairs
Corporate
including Finance,
Risk, IT and 
Strategy
Drax Biomass
Drax Power
Haven Power
Opus Energy Group
Corporate
including
Sustainability and 
Communications. 
Chairman of 
Billington Bioenergy 
GOVERNANCE
73
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Executive Committee attendance 2016
The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by members of the Executive Committee during 2016.
Date appointed as a 
member of the current 
Executive Committee
Maximum 
possible
meetings(1)
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Dorothy Thompson CBE
1 March 2015
11
11
100%
Will Gardiner
16 November 2015
11
11
100%
Jonathan Kini
1 September 2016
4
4
100%
Andy Koss
1 March 2015
11
11
100%
Pete Madden
1 January 2016
11
11
100%
Matthew Rivers
1 March 2015
11
11
100%
Peter Bennell
1 March 2015
7
7
100%
Note:
(1) The maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
How the Executive Committee functions
The Executive Committee receives regular reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business reports from each of the 
business units. Papers are distributed in advance of meetings, to brief members on matters to be discussed. Members also receive presentations 
on various business issues by senior managers within the business units.
74
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
Attendance in 2016
Date appointed a member
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Tim Cobbold
27 September 2010
3
3
100%
Philip Cox
22 April 2015
3
3
100%
Melanie Gee(1)
1 January 2013
2
2
100%
David Lindsell
1 December 2008
3
3
100%
Tony Thorne
29 June 2010
3
3
100%
Note:
(1) Melanie Gee retired as a director and Committee member on 20 April 2016.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
The Nominations Committee is 
crucial to ensuring that the Board 
has the right blend of expertise 
and experience and that it is 
ready to face the challenges 
of the future.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to:
 
– keep under review the Board’s structure, size and composition 
(including requisite skills, knowledge and experience it requires); 
 
– ensure a rigorous succession planning process is in place for the 
directors and other senior managers, including the identification of 
candidates from both within and outside the Group. 
Chairman
Philip Cox CBE
Committee members
Tim Cobbold, David Lindsell, Tony Thorne
Attending by invitation
Group Chief Executive, Head of Corporate HR
Number of meetings held in 2016
3
Terms of reference
The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by the 
Committee and then by the Board. The terms of reference are available 
on the Group’s website at www.drax.com.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committee’s 
proceedings to the following Board meeting.
The Committee has an annual programme of work which is designed 
to fulfil its principal duties. This programme reviews:
 
– Re-election and appointment of directors – The Committee met on 
14 February 2017, following the completion of the 2016 Board 
evaluation and performance review process, (described at the end 
of this report) and determined that all of the directors who are the 
subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. The Board evaluation 
and performance review concluded that the directors offering 
themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment 
to their particular role and to perform effectively.
 
– Size, structure and composition of the Board – At its meeting in 
February 2016, the Committee concluded that the Board, 
constituted with three executive directors, four independent 
non-executive directors and a chairman who was independent on 
appointment, was appropriate for the Company at the time. The 
Board further considered the composition of the Board at its 
meeting in April 2016 following Melanie Gee’s retirement from the 
GOVERNANCE
75
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Board at the close of the AGM. Search processes are in progress for 
two new non-executive directors with specific backgrounds in 
retail and sustainability. At the Executive Committee level, the 
Committee reviewed the position of Chief Executive Officer of 
Haven following Peter Bennell’s intention to retire. The Committee 
put in place a specific appraisal process to assess the suitability of 
Jonathan Kini to succeed Peter and this ultimately led to the 
appointment of Jonathan Kini as Haven’s CEO in September.
 
– Membership of Board committees – It is the Board’s policy to invite 
all independent non-executive directors to join the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration committees. The Committee 
reviewed this policy, and also the composition of the Board 
committees in light of Melanie Gee’s retirement following the AGM. 
It was noted that the committees remained compliant with the 
provisions of the Code and thus no changes to the committees 
were recommended.
 
– Succession planning – The Committee reviews the succession plan 
at least annually. The Group has a well-established and robust 
succession planning process, which covers all Executive Committee 
members and their direct reports, as well as other individuals within 
the Group who have been identified as having longer-term potential 
for senior roles. In the Committee’s opinion, the plan is well prepared 
and appropriate for the size of the Group’s business and 
management structure, and there is a range of good candidates for 
senior roles. Any potential gaps are the subject of both internal 
development plans and/or selected external recruitment.
 
– Board diversity – In addition to the regular programme of work and 
the externally facilitated evaluation mentioned below, the 
Committee also considered the question of Board diversity in its 
widest sense, and gender diversity in particular. The Company has 
actively engaged with initiatives promoted by the Department for 
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy to improve gender 
diversity at Board level. The Committee recognises the strength 
that can be achieved through diversity in the Group’s management. 
In particular, the Board’s policy is to ensure that the proportion of 
women is one of the considerations for Board and senior 
management appointments. That policy is implemented as part of 
the recruitment and selection process. Further details of gender 
diversity in the Group are included in the Employees section of the 
Sustainability review on page 44.
Non-executive directors
It is the Board’s policy that each non-executive director will be 
appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being 
satisfied as to the director’s performance and commitment, and a 
resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by 
mutual agreement. The Board will not normally extend the aggregate 
period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond 
nine years, and any proposal made to extend a non-executive director’s 
aggregate period of office beyond six years is subject to review. 
In 2016, two of our non-executive directors, Tim Cobbold and Tony 
Thorne, were both appointed for a third term (in addition to David 
Lindsell who was appointed for a third term in 2014). The Board has 
made this decision mindful of the Code which states that:
“Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms 
subject to re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the 
removal of a director. Any term beyond six years for a non-executive 
director should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and should 
take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board”.
The reason why the Board has taken the step to appoint the non-
executive directors named above for a third term is because the Group 
is at a key stage between the formulation of a new corporate strategy 
and its delivery. The Board feels that their continued service is vital to 
ensure that the Group benefits from the right blend of expertise and 
continuity of experience in its senior leadership as it makes and delivers 
these strategic moves. 
Renewal and re-election
The Articles provide that one-third of directors shall retire by rotation 
each year and are eligible for re-election by shareholders at the 
AGM. In accordance with the Code, the Company will continue to 
propose all directors for annual re-election. Accordingly, each of Tim 
Cobbold, Philip Cox, Will Gardiner, Andy Koss, David Lindsell, Dorothy 
Thompson and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Following the evaluation and review of the Board described below, 
I concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election 
continue to demonstrate commitment, management and industry 
expertise in their particular role and continue to perform effectively. 
The re-election of each director is recommended by the Board. Details 
of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of 
appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table 
on page 103.
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior 
arrangement during normal business hours at the Company’s 
registered office. They will also be available for inspection at the venue 
of the AGM, prior to the meeting, details of which are contained in the 
Notice of Meeting.
76
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Board evaluation and performance reviews
The continued effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the 
Group. Drax is committed to continually improving the effectiveness of 
the Board and its Committees. This Committee took forward two key 
initiatives to further improve that effectiveness in 2016.
The first of these followed on from the internal Board evaluation 
initiated by the Committee during 2015. In 2016 we conducted an 
externally facilitated valuation of the Board.
Boardroom Review Limited was chosen to facilitate and conduct the 
evaluation. Boardroom Review Limited does not provide any other 
services to the Board. The recommended format was a facilitated 
workshop where all the directors and the company secretary took  
part. Ahead of this, each of the directors and the company secretary 
completed a detailed questionnaire providing information about 
how they viewed the role of the Board and how it functions.
The workshop took place in November and helped identify current 
strengths, future challenges, and provided valuable insights to 
enhance the Board’s overall effectiveness. It was preceded and 
informed by conversations between Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom 
Review Limited and individual directors.
Following the workshop session, the Board reviewed the strengths 
of and challenges for the Board as well as the key themes that arose 
during the discussions. Recommendations for the future included 
selective invitations to advisers and outside experts to periodically 
present to the Board on key business and governance issues, and 
allowing more time on Board agendas for non-executive directors to 
discuss key issues without executive management present.
The Committee also initiated a review of the effectiveness of the 
Board, its committees and individual directors during 2016. The review 
concluded that all directors have a positive view of the effectiveness 
of the Board and its committees and that all directors continue to 
perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
There is clear alignment of the directors’ views of the Group’s priorities 
and agreement that the key decisions of the Board focus on those 
priorities. Steps have been identified to improve processes and 
operation of meetings to facilitate greater focus on priorities and 
strategic matters. Measures have also been identified that will improve 
the quality of information provided to the Board to enhance its 
consideration of risk impacts and mitigation measures.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the non-
executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, 
and the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with 
the non-executive directors without the Chairman being 
present, as required by provision A.4.2 of the Code.
Directors’ development 
The Board is committed to the development of all employees 
and directors and has reviewed, and will periodically continue 
to review, each director’s development requirements and 
make appropriate arrangements to address them. All new 
directors receive a full induction programme including wider 
background briefings on the Group’s activities, meetings 
with key managers and visits to the Group’s sites.
In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites 
both in the UK and the US. In 2016 the Board visited operational 
and administrative sites in the US, and over a three-day period 
carried out visits to Drax Biomass’s operations and reviewed 
the wider sustainability programme and activities. Periodically, 
the non-executive directors also meet with senior management 
to be briefed on the Group’s business and specific Board 
training days are arranged covering key relevant topics.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Nominations 
Committee on 15 February 2017.
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
GOVERNANCE
77
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Attendance in 2016
Date appointed a member
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Tim Cobbold
27 September 2010
4
4
100%
Melanie Gee(1)
1 January 2013
2
2
100%
David Lindsell
1 December 2008
4
4
100%
Tony Thorne
29 June 2010
4
4
100%
Note
(1) Melanie Gee retired as a director and Committee member on 20 April 2016.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Sound risk management and 
internal control systems are 
essential to enable the Group 
to achieve its objectives, 
while proper accountability to 
shareholders requires fair and 
balanced performance reporting.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities. 
Its primary functions are to:
 
– monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other 
information provided to shareholders; 
 
– review significant financial reporting issues and judgements 
contained in the financial statements; 
 
– advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the annual 
report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable; 
 
– maintain an appropriate relationship with the Group’s external 
auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external 
audit process; 
 
– review the systems of internal control and risk management; and 
 
– monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function, 
review the internal audit plan and all internal audit reports and 
review and monitor management’s responses to the findings and 
recommendations of the internal audit function.
Chairman
David Lindsell
Committee members
Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne, both of whom are independent 
non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee’s membership has the 
recent and relevant financial experience required by the Code.
Attending by invitation
Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial 
Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager,  
Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, External auditor (Deloitte).
Number of meetings held in 2016
4
Terms of reference
The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by the 
Committee and then by the Board. The terms of reference are available 
on the Group’s website at www.drax.com.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committee’s deliberations 
to the following Board meeting. The minutes of each Committee 
meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of 
the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Company Secretary and their 
resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
78
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
Main activities during the year
During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an annual work plan, which is agreed in November for the following 
calendar year and reviewed at each meeting. The main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each of its meetings during 2016 are set 
out in the table below.
Meeting
February
April
July
November
Item under 
review
 
– Year-end review of 
accounting issues and 
judgements (2015)
 
– Consideration of the 2015 
annual report, financial 
statements and 
preliminary results 
announcement
 
– Review of the 
effectiveness of internal 
controls and consideration 
of fraud
 
– Review of 2016 internal 
audit strategy and risk 
mapping
 
– Review of final report from 
Deloitte on their audit 
findings
 
– Assessment of the 
effectiveness of the 
external audit process
 
– Review of the Audit 
Committee’s effectiveness
 
– Review of Senior 
Accounting Officer 
reporting
 
– Review of management 
update on year-end 
accounting issues and 
judgements and of the 
potential impact of new 
accounting standards
 
– Review of the auditor 
independence policy 
 
– Review of the 
whistleblowing reporting 
policy
 
– Review of an activity 
report from the Ethics and 
Business Conduct 
Steering Committee
 
– Received an update 
regarding the tender 
process for the external 
audit engagement
 
– Approved the Internal 
Audit Charter
 
– Review of accounting 
issues and judgements 
affecting the 2016 interim 
financial statements
 
– Consideration of the 
half-yearly financial report
 
– Review of a report from 
Deloitte on their interim 
review findings
 
– Review of a report 
covering biomass 
sustainability assurance
 
– Review of the Audit 
Committee’s terms 
of reference
 
– Review of the Group’s 
proposed accounting 
policy for the CfD
 
– Received a business 
update presentation from 
Haven, covering key risks 
and controls
 
– Review of audit tender 
conclusions and 
recommendation to 
the Board
 
– Review of accounting issues 
and judgements affecting 
the 2016 financial 
statements
 
– Review of Deloitte planning 
report on the 2016 audit, 
their terms of engagement 
and proposed audit fees
 
– Review of the composition 
and qualifications of the 
Group’s finance teams
 
– Received a business update 
from Drax Power, covering 
key financial risks and 
controls
 
– Review of the internal audit 
plan for 2017–18
 
– Review and approval of the 
external auditor’s terms of 
engagement
 
– Review of the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk 
management systems and 
the effectiveness of its 
procedures for detecting 
fraud and preventing bribery
 
– Review of the response to a 
letter from the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) 
regarding the Group’s 2015 
Annual report
In addition, there are a number of routine items which are put to each meeting as follows:
 
– a review of the minutes and actions from previous meetings;
 
– reports from the internal audit function on its progress with the programme for the year, including fee analysis and new internal audit  
reports; and
 
– the Committee’s rolling annual plan review.
Between the year-end date and the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, the Committee met in January 2017 to review the 
contents of the shareholder circular in relation to the Opus acquisition and recommend the Board approve the circular, and in February 2017 
principally to review the draft 2016 Annual report and accounts and the external auditor’s findings.
The Committee continues to focus on strategic risk areas, such as biomass sustainability reporting, as well as ensuring the provision of a  
core compliance assurance service. No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit reports, although improvements in 
processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews. At its meeting in July 2016 the Committee received and reviewed an independent 
report concerning biomass sustainability controls. The report raised no material weaknesses in policy or approach but did highlight the key areas 
of judgement and risk within the process. Similar to routine internal audit reviews, certain improvements in processes and procedures were 
implemented as a result of the report’s recommendations. During 2016, the Committee also received updates on financial risks and controls from 
each of the Group’s primary business units. Drax Power and Haven Power attended Committee meetings and Drax Biomass presented to the 
Committee as part of a Board visit to the US in October.
GOVERNANCE
79
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
In July 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved management’s proposed accounting policy for the CfD contract, which is described on 
page 127. The Group’s principal accounting policies and the judgements and assumptions made in the process of applying them are set out in  
the notes to the accounts. In respect of all such matters, including the accounting treatment of the CfD, the external auditor concurred with  
the judgements made by management and the Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies were applied appropriately, and that the 
accounting estimates and judgements made were appropriate. In addition, the Committee satisfied itself as to the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor on the basis set out below under “Independence of the external audit”.
In October 2016, the Group received a letter from the FRC’s Corporate Reporting Review team, requesting information about certain matters 
arising from their review of the 2015 Annual report and accounts. As a result of correspondence and discussions with the Review team some 
additional information, relating in particular to the effectiveness of power generation using biomass in reducing carbon emissions and to asset 
impairment testing, has been included in the 2016 Annual report and accounts. The Committee reviewed and approved the Group’s responses  
to the FRC’s enquiries. 
The Committee has a forward programme of specific review areas, with a focus on risk management processes, internal control systems, and 
financial reporting aspects. In addition, the Committee monitors the Group’s general internal control environment on an annual basis, including 
risk management structures, policies and processes, the overall financial control framework, key operational controls including production 
integrity, IT and environmental controls, and procedures in relation to bribery, fraud and any non-compliance.
During 2016, the Committee reviewed the Group’s preliminary results announcement, annual report and accounts, and half-year results 
announcement. At these meetings, the Committee received reports from management and the external auditor on the application of accounting 
policies on significant estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements, and on the methods used to account for any 
significant or unusual transactions.
Reviewing the 2016 annual report and accounts
At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the content of the 2016 Annual report and accounts, alongside a paper on accounting 
issues and judgements affecting the accounts and a report from Deloitte LLP setting out their audit findings. The significant issues and 
judgements considered were as follows:
Matter
Issue and nature of judgement
Factors considered and conclusions reached
Carrying value 
and useful 
lives of fixed 
assets
In 2015 the market capitalisation of the Group fell materially below the 
carrying value of the Group’s net assets. Whilst the shortfall has reduced 
considerably during 2016, this remains the case at the balance sheet date.  
In addition, commodity markets are weak and the substantial weakening  
of Sterling against both the Euro and US dollar in the second half of 2016 
indicated a potentially material increase in the long-term costs of fuel for our 
generation business, which are predominantly priced in these currencies.
As a result, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS, management 
conducted an impairment review in respect of the Drax Power cash-generating 
unit (CGU). They did so by comparing the present value of future cash flows the 
CGU with the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets.
The assumptions that underpin such calculations are, by their nature, 
dependent upon application of judgement and are thus subject to uncertainty. 
In particular this is because observable market information is only available for a 
limited proportion of the remaining lives of the Group’s power generation assets.
Management presented an overview of the methodology and most critical 
assumptions to the Committee meeting in November 2016. 
The Committee reviewed an updated report at its meeting in February 2017 that 
considered refinements in assumptions and key judgements up to the present 
time, as described in note 2.4.
It was noted that the cash flows that underpin the value in use calculation for  
the Drax Power CGU were derived from the Group’s five-year business plan,  
which was subject to review by the Board in January 2017. This review included 
challenge of the key assumptions, including commodity and currency forward 
curves, the expected useful life of the coal generating units (see note 3.1) 
and post-2027 revenue sources.
After challenging management, regarding these longer-term assumptions, the 
Committee concluded that a reasonable, supportable and consistent approach 
had been taken in preparing the review and that there was no current indication 
of impairment.
Derivative 
financial 
instruments
The Group makes extensive use of derivative financial instruments in order  
to manage key risks facing the business and its balance sheet includes 
significant assets and liabilities arising from derivatives which are stated at 
their fair value. In particular, the asset values of forward foreign currency 
purchase contracts increased substantially in the period following the 
weakening of Sterling.
Changes in the fair value of such instruments are recognised in the income 
statement or when the specific criteria for hedge accounting are met,  
in the hedge reserve.
The fair values for derivative financial instruments are determined using 
forward price curves and, where an instrument incorporates an element 
of optionality, an option pricing model.
The inputs to these calculations include assumptions regarding 
future transactions and market movements, as well as credit risk, 
and are therefore subjective.
The Committee reviewed the Group’s derivative position in February, July and 
November 2016 having regard in particular to the critical judgemental areas 
described in note 7.2 and considered the position as at 31 December 2016 at  
its meeting in February 2017.
At each meeting, management explained the trends in market prices that 
underpinned changes in the fair value of the derivative portfolio and highlighted 
any new types of derivative instrument for the Committee’s consideration.
The Committee concluded that the fair value calculations had been performed  
in a reasonable and consistent manner based on quoted market prices as 
explained in note 7.2 and that the system of controls in place was fit for purpose. 
Accordingly, it was concluded that the amounts included in the financial 
statements were appropriate.
80
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
Matter
Issue and nature of judgement
Factors considered and conclusions reached
Valuation of 
ROC assets
The Group receives ROCs for generating electricity from sustainable biomass. 
The Group’s balance sheet contains a material amount of such assets at the 
end of December 2016.
ROC assets are initially valued at fair value and subsequently written down to 
net realisable value where appropriate.
These calculations require an element of judgement in considering probable 
future sales prices in the market.
The Committee reviewed papers presented by management at its meetings in 
February, July and November, which set out the current balance sheet valuation 
and the key underlying assumptions that drive the carrying value, including the 
assessment of likely future sales prices of ROCs.
At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the specific assumptions 
that directly impact the amounts recognised in the 2016 financial statements,  
as explained in note 3.2.
The Committee concluded that the judgements made in valuing ROC assets were 
reasonable, supportable and consistent and that, accordingly, the values included 
in the financial statements were appropriate.
Existence and 
valuation of 
fuel 
inventories
The Group carries a material amount of fuel inventories (predominantly coal 
and biomass in the form of compressed wood pellets) which are measured  
at the lower of their weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Whilst value is largely based on observable costs, the nature and 
characteristics of the inventories mean that determining the volume of 
inventory at any given time is subject to a degree of estimation. Accordingly, 
while both coal and biomass stocks are measured using equipment regularly 
calibrated to industry standard levels of tolerance, as explained in note 3.3  
the potential for actual results to vary from initial calculations remains.
Stocks are surveyed at the balance sheet date by either an independent  
third party or electronic scanning equipment and provisions made where 
appropriate. However, both methods rely on assumptions regarding density  
of the fuel surveyed.
The Committee reviewed the processes, including judgements, estimates  
and assumptions made, in respect of fuel inventory valuation at its meetings  
in February, July and November in 2016.
At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the position and specific 
judgements made in respect of the 2016 financial statements.
Having challenged management on the appropriateness of the measurements 
used in determining inventory volumes, the Committee concluded that the 
process and approach followed by management had been performed in  
a reasonable and prudent manner.
Explanations of the critical accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions are set out in detail throughout the notes to the 
consolidated financial statements, with a summary on pages 117 
and 118.
The Committee also reviewed the underlying process, internal controls, 
forecasts and relevant assumptions made in preparing the Viability 
Statement, disclosed on page 54 of this Annual report. Having 
challenged the assumptions made in this process and considered  
the appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment, the 
Committee concluded that the process supporting the Viability 
Statement was robust.
In addition, other matters relating to the application of accounting 
policies or accounting treatment were considered during the year 
at the February, July and November 2016 meetings, and again 
at the February 2017 meeting in relation to our financial 
statements. These included:
 
– the accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in relation 
to revenue recognition, retirement benefit obligations and taxation. 
Further information on these areas can be found in the 
consolidated financial statements; and 
 
– other accounting issues, relating to application of accounting 
policies or accounting treatment. Where applicable, our accounting 
policies are set out in the relevant note to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
The Committee met twice in the absence of management with 
each of the external auditor (February and July) and Head of 
Group Risk and Internal Audit (April and November). No matters of 
concern were drawn to the Committee’s attention at any of these 
meetings. The Committee’s understanding with both the external 
and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become aware 
of any matters giving them material concern, they will immediately 
draw it to the Committee’s attention via the Chairman of the 
Committee. Nothing was reported in this way during the year.
Review of Audit Committee effectiveness by members
In line with the FRC’s Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee 
reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that the composition of 
its membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews that  
it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the continued 
effective functioning of the Committee.
Fair, balanced and understandable view
The Committee reviewed the content of this annual report and 
accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, 
it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
External auditor effectiveness
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor, 
Deloitte LLP, who have performed the role continuously since the 
Company’s listing in 2005. This process incorporated feedback from 
management and key individuals across the Group, as well as the 
Committee’s own experience. The assessment considered the 
independence and objectivity of Deloitte, the robustness of the  
audit process, the quality of delivery of the audit plan, the quality of 
reporting on findings and recommendations to the Committee and 
management, and the experience and expertise of the audit team 
and the quality of service provided.
Independence of the external audit
The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy (the Policy), in 
accordance with which the Committee annually reviews the quality 
and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditor. The Policy can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.drax.com.
GOVERNANCE
81
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The provisions of the Policy include:
 
– seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional 
judgement, independent of the Group, and obtaining from  
it an account of all relationships which may affect the firm’s 
independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and staff;
 
– a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct 
non-audit work, under which: 
• the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of 
work, including those where they may be required to audit their 
own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor 
would act in an advocacy role for the Group; 
• there is a clear approval process for engaging the auditor 
to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to 
financial limits; 
• all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work are 
reported to the next meeting of the Committee; and
• the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor for 
audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee. 
The Committee receives reports from the external auditor on its own 
processes and procedures, to ensure its independence and objectivity 
and to ensure compliance with the relevant standards.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for 
audit and other services are set out in note 2.2 to the consolidated 
financial statements on page 127. 
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group’s choice of 
external auditor.
Audit tendering and rotation
The Group has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit 
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) 
Order 2014. 
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation 537/2014 of the 
European Parliament and Council, we conducted a tender process for 
the external audit of the 2017 financial statements during the year.  
This process was led by the Chair of the Audit Committee and involved 
a tender committee comprised of management from across the 
Group’s finance and risk functions.
At its meeting in July 2016 the Committee reviewed an update on 
the tender process. In November 2016 the Chair presented a report 
outlining the tender committee’s findings and recommendations. 
The Audit Committee debated these findings, before agreeing to 
recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP should be reappointed 
as external auditor for the 2017 financial statements.
The recommendation will be put to shareholders at the AGM in 
April 2017.
Internal audit
From 2016, the Group’s internal audit function moved to a co-sourced 
model led by the Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, having 
previously been undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
As part of the transition, the Committee reviewed and approved the 
Group’s Internal Audit Charter strategy and initial plan for areas of 
review in 2016 and 2017.
Under the new model, the internal team conducts core financial 
control reviews. Reviews of specialist technical areas are outsourced 
to firms with appropriate experience and qualifications. 
The Committee receive reports at each meeting regarding the internal 
audit programme and reviews undertaken. Recommendations are 
made to management for control improvements as appropriate.  
Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee 
during 2016 included:
 
– retail pricing model and advanced metering roll-out;
 
– ROC process controls self-assessment;
 
– physical fuel trade settlement;
 
– key financial controls over expenditure and payroll in the Retail 
business; and
 
– generation stores and non-spares stock.
In addition, at the April and November meetings the Committee 
received reports detailing progress with implementing 
recommendations previously raised by internal audit. Following the 
most recent of these updates, in November 2016, the Committee was 
satisfied that management is taking appropriate steps to deal with the 
recommendations raised.
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, 
maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and 
external auditor.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee on 
15 February 2017.
David Lindsell
Chairman of the Audit Committee
82
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Attendance in 2016
Date  
appointed a member
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of  
meetings 
attended
Tim Cobbold
27 September 2010
5
5
100%
Philip Cox
22 April 2015
5
5
100%
Melanie Gee(1)
1 January 2013
2
2
100%
David Lindsell
1 December 2008
5
5
100%
Tony Thorne
29 June 2010
5
5
100%
Note:
(1) Melanie Gee resigned as a director and Committee member on 20 April 2016.
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance 
with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, as amended 
(the Regulations) and the provisions of the Code.
The management team made 
significant advances on strategy 
and continued, along with the 
staff as a whole, to deliver a 
highly effective operational 
performance across all business 
areas in the Group.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to: 
 
– recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and 
framework for the executive directors and members of the 
Executive Committee;
 
– determine, within that framework, the individual remuneration 
packages for the executive directors and members of the 
Executive Committee;
 
– approve the design of annual and long-term incentive 
arrangements for executive directors and members of the 
Executive Committee, including agreeing the annual targets and 
payments under such arrangements;
 
– determine and agree the general terms and conditions of service 
and the specific terms for any individual within the Committee’s 
remit, either on recruitment or on termination;
 
– determine the policy for, and scope of, executive pension 
arrangements; and
 
– oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the Group and review remuneration trends across 
the Group.
Chairman
Tony Thorne
Committee members
Tim Cobbold, Philip Cox, David Lindsell
Attending by invitation
Group Chief Executive, Head of Corporate HR, external 
remuneration advisers
Number of meetings held in 2016
5
Terms of reference
The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by the 
Committee and then by the Board. The terms of reference are available 
on the Group’s website at www.drax.com
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
83
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual statement to shareholders
This report reviews the key matters considered by the Remuneration 
Committee in the past year and the future matters we expect to consider. 
During the year, the Committee, in addition to its normal responsibilities, 
conducted a thorough review of the Group’s remuneration policy.
The management team performed strongly in 2016 and this is reflected 
in the year’s pay outcomes. Commodity markets remained challenging 
and there was a delay in the approval of the important CfD, by the 
European Commission. The mitigating actions taken by management, 
combined with good implementation, meant that the Company had 
a strong performance and outcome, compared to plan. In addition 
to high operational performance, there was a good advance on the 
strategic front. The announced strategic moves, coupled with the 
improved outlook for earnings, gave a healthy boost to the share price. 
Annual assessment of performance
Performance areas of particular note in the year included the excellent 
safety result. At Drax Power, income lost through delays to the state aid 
approval of the CfD was more than offset by securing high ancillary service 
revenues and good use of coal unit flexibility. The CfD was finally approved, in 
December 2016, at the contract strike price of £100/MWh. At Drax Biomass 
although availability was below target, quality was above target. Haven’s 
results were pleasing with continued growth and at improved margins. 
With Drax now “predominantly biomass fuelled”, the strategy the 
Group launched in 2012 has completed. Management had been 
working with the Board for some time on a new strategy. This 
was launched publicly in December and is described earlier in the 
Annual report. The acquisitions of Opus and four OCGT projects, 
plus the advice that the Group was actively looking at securing 
further US pellet production, were all initiatives consistent with 
the new strategy and were well received by the market.
There is a detailed review of performance against our balanced scorecard 
measures on page 98. Components within the scorecard can be scored 
between 0 and 2.0. A score of 1 represents an on-target performance. 
For 2016 the Board assessed the overall performance at 1.3. 
The score is applied both to the annual bonus and the Bonus Matching 
Plan (BMP). For the purposes of the annual bonus the overall score in 
any year is capped at 1.5. There is no cap on the annual score when 
applied to the BMP scorecard, but there is a cap of 1.5 on the average 
for the three years.
Based on performance, a corporate score of 1.3 out of 2 and personal 
score of 1.35 out of 1.5 was agreed by the Committee, resulting in 
annual bonuses of approximately 88% of maximum. The Committee 
believes that this bonus outcome fairly reflects what has been a strong 
performance, in terms of what management has achieved against the 
Business Plan and the strategy, the way in which they have led the 
employee base and the shareholder value created during the year.
Long-term assessment of performance
BMP awards made in 2014 were tested at the end of 2016 by reference to 
relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance (50%) and on the 
three-year average of the corporate scorecard (50%). The Company’s TSR 
over the period was below the median of the comparator group, and the 
Committee therefore confirmed that none of the TSR element of the 
award would vest. The average corporate scorecard outcome over the 
same period was 1.09 out of 1.5, and therefore 15.43% of the executive 
directors’ 2014 BMP awards will vest. 
The Committee viewed the formulaic vesting outcome as a reasonable 
reflection of performance over the three-year period, acknowledging 
that the share price has been affected by external events during the  
last three years, but that significant progress has been made against 
strategic and financial targets set out in the Business Plan.
No discretion was exercised in determining the remuneration payouts. 
Base salaries
Base salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 April 2016. Dorothy 
Thompson, Will Gardiner and Andy Koss did not receive any salary 
increase, while the average increase for the wider workforce was 2.7%. 
Review of remuneration policy
While the Committee has been pleased with shareholders’ support over 
the life of the current policy, we need to ensure that our remuneration 
arrangements remain fit for the future and align with good practice. To 
maintain remuneration arrangements that robustly measure and reward 
business and shareholder outcomes, we fully reviewed the remuneration 
policy applying to directors in 2016.
In summary, the main changes proposed for 2017 onwards are as follows:
 – decoupling the annual bonus and the BMP, with the introduction of  
a new Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Deferred Share Plan (DSP), 
along with a reduction in the maximum individual limit which can be 
granted from 225% to 175% of an executive’s salary;
 
– adjusting the vesting schedules to give a better balance between 
performance and reward, while introducing a two-year holding 
period post the three-year vesting of PSP shares;
 – increasing the executive shareholding guideline to 200% of salary; and
 
– changing the vesting arrangements for deferred bonus awards on 
cessation of employment, by removing any pro-rating for time, but 
retaining the normal vesting date, rather than paying out awards 
immediately on leaving.
The Committee believes that the proposals strengthen the alignment 
of executive remuneration with delivery of the business strategy and 
shareholder value. In particular, we have:
 
– simplified the arrangements by introducing a market-standard 
performance share plan;
 
– reduced maximum executive remuneration in line with investor 
sentiment;
 
– increased the alignment with long-term shareholder value; and
 
– moved into line with current corporate governance best practice.
Further details of the proposed changes are provided in the policy 
section of this report on page 86.
Summary
I, and the other members of the Committee, are satisfied that the  
2016 remuneration outcomes fairly reflect corporate and personal 
performance. We are confident that our new policy provides the right 
incentive to management, aligns well with shareholder interests and 
brings us closely in line with best practice. 
I was very pleased with the level of support received from investors 
during consultations over the new remuneration policy. We will continue 
to monitor changes in executive remuneration and listen to the regular 
feedback from shareholders, to ensure that our remuneration policy 
remains in line with good practice. Overall, we will continue to make 
sure that our executives’ pay reflects performance achieved. 
84
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
At a glance
The following is an overview of our remuneration framework applying from 2017 onwards, under the new directors’ remuneration policy to be 
put to shareholders at the Company’s AGM in April 2017.
Remuneration component and link to strategy 
Key features
Base salary, benefits and pension
Payable to attract, reward and retain the right calibre 
of executive to deliver the leadership and management 
needed to execute the Group’s vision and Business Plan.
Market competitive elements to attract the right calibre of executives (including health 
cover, car and defined contribution retirement benefits).
Annual bonus
The award of annual bonus is directly linked to personal 
performance and to achieving the annual Business 
Plan targets.
Maximum annual bonus potential is 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 
140% for other executive directors.
Performance conditions include a corporate scorecard and personal score and payout 
is determined based on a multiplicative formula.
Deferral: 65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash and 35% is deferred in shares, 
which vest after three years subject to continued employment or “good leaver” 
termination provisions. 
Performance Share Plan (replaces Bonus Matching Plan)
The PSP links long-term share-based incentives to TSR 
and the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
Normal annual awards are 175% of salary.
Vesting occurs after three years, based on TSR relative to a FTSE 350 comparator 
group (50%) and the average corporate scorecard over the period (50%).
Awards are subject to a two year holding period.
Shareholding guidelines
The Group’s share ownership guidelines align the 
interests of executives with shareholders.
Executives are expected to retain shares to the value of 200% of base salary.
Incentive outcomes for 2016
Annual bonus
Area
Weighting
Score/Outcome
Safety
5%
1.53
Finance
40%
1.61
Regulation
20%
0.90
General
5%
1.30
Business units
30%
1.17
Overall “corporate score” (CS) (maximum 2)
1.30
Executive director “personal score” (PS) (maximum 1.5)
1.35
Bonus outcome as % of maximum (=CS x PS x 50%)
8.8
Range of bonus outcomes as % of salary
123–132%
See page 98 for further details
BMP
Area
Weighting
Score/Outcome
2014 corporate score
1.22
2015 corporate score
0.76
2016 corporate score
1.30
Average corporate score (maximum 1.5)
50%
1.09
Relative TSR performance
50%
0%
BMP outcome as a % of maximum
15.43%
See page 91 for further details
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
85
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Single total figure remuneration table for 2016
Remuneration element (£000)
Executive director (Role)
Base salary
Pension
Annual 
bonus(1)
BMP(2)
Other 
benefits
2016  
Total
2015  
Total
Dorothy Thompson (Chief Executive, Drax Group)
574
115
756
60
76
1,581
1,248
Will Gardiner (Chief Financial Officer)
390
78
479
–
24
971
96(3)
Andy Koss (Chief Executive, Drax Power)
310
62
381
16
21
790
n/a(4)
Notes:
(1) Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to 
continued service.
(2) BMP is the value of the BMP Matching Awards vesting in March 2017, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares. The value is calculated based on the average share 
price over the last quarter of 2016.
(3) Will Gardiner was appointed as a director on 16 November 2015. 
(4) Andy Koss was appointed as a director on 1 January 2016.
86
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration policy
This remuneration policy, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, will be effective from immediately after the AGM on 13 April 2017 and 
will be binding upon the Group until the close of the 2020 AGM. There are no planned changes to the policy over the three-year period to which 
it relates.
The core principles of the remuneration policy are set out below:
 
– making sure that executive remuneration is linked strongly to performance and the achievement of strategic objectives; 
 
– ensuring transparency in executive pay reporting through simplification in design and appropriate reporting; 
 
– securing and retaining top talent; and
 
– maintaining flexibility, to recognise the uncertain business environment, whilst ensuring that remuneration outcomes are aligned to 
shareholder interests.
Key components of remuneration
The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to support the delivery of strong business performance and the creation 
of shareholder value. We set out in the table below the policy relating to the key components of the remuneration policy for executive directors, 
and in the notes following the table we comment on differences between this policy and that for the remuneration of employees generally.
Base Salary
Base salary helps to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive to deliver the leadership and management needed to execute the 
Group’s vision and Business Plan.
Practical operation
Base salary reflects the role, the executive’s skills and experience,  
and market level. It is paid in 12 monthly instalments.
To determine the market level, the Committee reviews remuneration 
data on executive positions at companies which the Committee 
considers to be appropriate comparators.
The comparator companies are selected, with advice from the 
Committee’s remuneration advisers, taking into account factors such 
as, but not limited to, sector, size, and international presence.
On appointment, an executive director’s base salary is set at the 
market level, or below if the executive is not fully experienced at 
this level.
Where base salary on appointment is below market level to reflect 
experience, it will be increased over time to align with the market 
level, subject to performance.
Base salaries of all executive directors are generally reviewed  
once each year, with increases applying from April. Reviews cover 
individual performance, experience, development in the role and 
market comparisons.
Maximum potential value
The base salaries of executive directors in post at the start of the 
policy period, and who remain in the same role throughout the policy 
period, will not usually be increased by a higher percentage than the 
average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other Group 
employees in the Group.
Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development,  
are where:
(i) An executive director has been appointed at below market level to 
reflect experience. Under this scenario, increases will be capped 
at 5% above the average annual percentage increase in salaries of 
all other Group employees.
(ii) An executive director has been promoted internally and their 
salary is below market level. Under this scenario, increases will not 
be capped and the Committee can increase base salary to the 
market level within an appropriate timeframe. 
Performance measures
No performance measures apply.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
87
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual bonus
The award of annual bonuses is directly linked to personal performance and to achieving the annual Business Plan targets.
The multiplicative formula is designed to ensure that bonus payments for high personal performance are moderated where business 
performance is below target, or vice versa.
The aim of the deferred portion of annual bonus is to further align executives to shareholders’ interests, by linking share-based reward to 
long-term sustainable performance.
Practical operation
65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash, normally three months 
after the end of the financial year to which it relates.
35% of annual bonus earned is deferred in nil cost awards over 
shares under the Deferred Share Plan (DSP), which vest after 
three years subject to continued employment or “good leaver” 
termination provisions. 
The DSP is proposed to be introduced for 2017, as a vehicle for 
deferring the relevant proportion of annual bonus in shares.
Annual bonus earned (subject to the maximum opportunity) is:
Target bonus x corporate score x personal score.
Target bonus is 50% of maximum.
Corporate score ranges from zero to 2.0.
Each measure in the corporate scorecard is assigned a weighting and 
three performance levels (low, target and stretch). The score is zero if 
performance is below the low target, 1 if performance is at target and 
2 for stretch performance. Although the individual elements are 
scored up to 2, the bonus is capped at 1.5
Personal score ranges from zero to 1.5.
The score is zero if performance is below threshold, 1 if performance 
is at target level and 1.5 for exceptional performance of the executive 
team or individual.
Dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in 
additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply clawback to any 
annual bonus awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table.
Summary corporate scorecard and performance results are 
published in the Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the Annual 
bonus and can amend the final outcome to ensure that bonus 
payments reflect overall performance. The use of such discretion  
will be explained fully in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
Maximum potential value
Role
Maximum bonus potential
(% of base salary)
Chief Executive, Drax Group
150%
Other executive directors
140%
There is no payment for below threshold performance.
Performance measures
Corporate score is based on performance against the corporate 
scorecard of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the 
Committee each year, in conjunction with the Board. Performance 
measures include financial, production, strategic and other Business 
Plan objectives. Typically at least 30% of the corporate scorecard is 
based on financial objectives, around 30% on strategic goals and at 
least 30% is based on specific objectives within business units, but 
the Committee has discretion to vary the weightings from year 
to year.
The corporate scorecard is amended each year, in line with business 
strategy and objectives.
Personal score. The Committee determines the personal objectives for 
the Group Chief Executive, who in turn proposes personal objectives 
for the other executive directors, which are reviewed and approved 
by the Committee. Generally, all executive directors will be awarded  
a single score based on their collective performance in providing 
effective day-to-day leadership of the Group as a unified leadership 
team. Personal scores may differ in circumstances of exceptional 
over or under performance.
In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee believes  
the original measures and/or targets are no longer appropriate, the 
Committee has discretion to amend performance measures and 
targets during the year.
88
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Drax 2017 Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP is the Company’s new long-term incentive plan. It replaces the legacy BMP and links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to 
the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
Practical operation
The PSP is a new long-term performance share plan, which is being 
put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Under the PSP, executive directors receive an annual grant of nil cost 
conditional awards over shares.
Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to 
continued service or “good leaver” termination provisions, and the 
achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period 
determined by the Committee. Vested awards are subject to a 
further holding period of two years.
Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume notional 
reinvestment) are paid on PSP awards.
The Committee will include an override provision in each grant under 
the PSP. This will give the Committee discretion to determine that 
no vesting shall occur, or that vesting shall be reduced, if there are 
circumstances (relating to the Company’s overall performance or 
otherwise) which make vesting when calculated by reference to 
the performance conditions alone inappropriate.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus or 
clawback to unvested/vested awards, as set out in the notes to the 
policy table.
The Committee reserves discretion to:
(i) amend the performance conditions/targets attached to 
outstanding awards granted under this policy, in the event of  
a major corporate event or significant change in economic 
circumstances, or a change in accounting standards having  
a material impact on outcomes; and 
(ii) adjust the vesting of PSP awards and/or the number of shares 
underlying unvested PSP awards, on the occurrence of  
a corporate event or other reorganisation.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment of long-term 
incentives will be determined in accordance with the relevant 
plan rules.
Maximum potential value
The maximum annual grant is 175% of base salary. 
Performance measures
There are two performance measures which apply to PSP awards, 
as follows:
(i) TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 350 
comparator group (50% of award), vesting as follows:
 
Below Median = 0%
 
At Median = 25%
 
Upper Quartile = 100%
(ii) Average corporate scorecard (as described in the annual bonus) 
over three financial years (50% of award), vesting as follows:
 
Average Score 0.75 = 0%
 
Average Score 1 = 50%
 
Average Score 1.5 = 100% 
While each annual corporate score can range from zero to 2.0, the 
three-year average corporate score is capped at 1.5. For illustration:
Year 1 Score 1.8
Year 2 Score 0.9
Year 3 Score 1.2
Average corporate score = 1.3 
Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for 
both conditions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
89
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Pension
Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery of the leadership and 
management needed to execute the Group’s vision and Business Plan.
Practical operation
Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of 
the Group’s defined contribution pension plan. The employer’s 
contribution for executive directors is 20% of base salary.
Alternatively, at their option, executive directors may either have 
contributions of the same amounts made to their personal pension 
schemes, cash in lieu of pension (subject to normal statutory 
deductions); or a combination of pension contributions and cash 
in lieu of pension.
Maximum potential value
Maximum is 20% of base salary.
Performance measures
No performance measures apply.
Benefits
Benefits are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of directors’ total remuneration.
Practical operation
Executive directors receive a car allowance, life assurance (four times 
salary), the opportunity to participate in all-employee share plans on 
the same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment 
and annual private medical cover.
Additional benefits may be provided if the Committee considers  
them appropriate.
Relocation expenses and/or second base expenses are paid, where 
appropriate, in individual cases. Directors’ relocation expenses are 
determined on a case-by-case basis. The policy is designed to assist 
the director to relocate to a home of similar standing.
Maximum potential value
Benefits are set at a level appropriate to the individual’s role  
and circumstances.
The maximum opportunity will depend on the type of benefit and 
cost of its provision, which will vary according to the market and 
individual circumstances.
Performance measures
No performance measures apply.
Share ownership guideline
The Group’s share ownership guidelines align the interests of executives with shareholders.
Practical operation
The share ownership guideline is that all executive directors should 
retain shares to the value of 200% of base salary, to be accumulated 
over five years. Until this level is reached, directors who receive 
shares by virtue of any share plan award or who receive deferred 
bonus shares must retain 50% of the shares received net (i.e. after 
income tax and national insurance contributions). Only shares that 
have actually vested count towards the threshold.
Maximum potential value
N/A
Performance measures
N/A
90
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Changes to executive directors’ remuneration policy from previous policy
A summary of the key changes to the existing Drax remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM (the existing policy) is set  
out below:
Component
Existing policy
New policy
Reasons for change
Base salary
Where an executive director has been 
appointed at a starting salary below 
market, the director’s salary may be 
increased to market, but increases in 
any one year are limited to not more than 
5% above the average for the workforce 
in that year.
Removal of restriction for executive 
directors internally appointed below 
market salary or promoted to a role with 
increased scope or expanded nature 
of responsibilities.
Removing the limitations on salary increases 
in respect of internal promotions supports 
succession planning and encourages 
development of our talent pool.
Benefits and pensions
Changes to clarify operation and maximum value of benefits in existing policy.
N/A
Annual bonus
Executive directors with “good leaver” 
status receive their deferred shares, 
pro-rated for the period of service, 
immediately on cessation of employment.
New Deferred Share Plan introduced as 
vehicle for deferred element of bonus 
(remains as 35% of bonus earned).
Deferred bonus shares for “good leavers” 
will vest in full without time pro-rating, at 
the normal vesting date.
Changes recognise that the primary aim of 
bonus deferral is to ensure that the short-term 
performance is linked to sustainable returns to 
shareholders, more closely aligning executives 
and shareholder interests.
Long-term incentives
BMP operated, whereby maximum 
opportunity is linked to annual bonus 
outcome.
Maximum opportunity: Group Chief 
Executive – 225% of base salary, other 
executive directors – 210% of base salary.
50% based on relative TSR vs FTSE 51–150, 
with 15% vesting at median performance.
50% based on Company Scorecard with:
– 
Nil vesting below a Score of 1
– 
15% vesting for a Score of 1
– 
100% vesting for a Score of 1.5
Awards released after three years.
Removal of link between annual bonus 
and long-term incentive opportunity and 
introduction of new Performance 
Share Plan.
Maximum opportunity – 175% of base 
salary for all executive directors.
50% based on relative TSR vs FTSE 350 
with 25% vesting at median performance.
50% based on Company Scorecard with:
– 
Nil vesting below a Score of 0.75
– 
50% vesting for a Score of 1
– 
100% vesting for a Score of 1.5
Two-year holding period added 
post-vesting.
De-coupling the long-term incentives from the 
annual bonus simplifies remuneration.
Increasing the vesting for achieving median 
TSR performance and a Company Scorecard 
of 1 achieves a better balance between 
performance and reward and aligns more 
closely with market norms.
The change to the TSR comparator group 
reflects Drax’s market capitalisation.
Introduction of holding period aligns 
executives more closely with shareholder 
value over the longer term and brings the 
operation more in line with corporate 
governance best practice.
Shareholding requirement
Shareholding of 175% of base salary for the 
Group Chief Executive and 125% of base 
salary for other executive directors to 
be accumulated.
Shareholding of 200% of base salary to be 
accumulated for all executive directors 
within a five-year period.
Further strengthening the alignment of 
executive and shareholder interests.
Equalisation of shareholding requirements 
across the executive directors is in line with 
our team approach to executive remuneration.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
91
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Elements of existing policy that will continue – BMP awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016
Remuneration component and link to strategy
Practical operation
Performance measures
Bonus Matching Plan – deferred and conditional awards 
made in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the 
achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance 
conditions (conditional awards) and continued service 
or “good leaver” termination provisions (deferred and 
conditional awards).
Further details of the terms of the awards were included in 
the Annual remuneration reports of the respective years.
Vesting of conditional awards is subject to relative 
TSR and average corporate scorecard outcome over 
three years.
Performance measures and approach to setting targets
The measures for elements of variable pay are:
 
– Corporate scorecard, consisting of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the Committee each year in conjunction with the Board. 
The corporate scorecard aligns incentives of executive directors with achievement of key business goals.
 
– Personal objectives, which typically reflect the collective performance of the executive directors in providing effective day-to-day leadership 
of the Group, as a unified leadership team.
 
– Relative TSR, which aligns executive director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the Business Plan and other 
circumstances as appropriate. A summary of the corporate scorecard targets that apply for the following year are disclosed in the Annual report 
on remuneration on page 105.
Circumstances in which malus or clawback may apply
Malus and/or clawback may be applied to incentive awards under the following circumstances:
 
– Clawback for the annual bonus – the Committee may require a director to repay any amount of annual bonus payment it considers 
appropriate, in circumstances of financial misstatement, or misconduct, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been 
based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of 
the clawback provision. 
 
– Malus and clawback for the BMP – if a repayment of bonus is required (see “annual bonus” above) the Committee shall reduce the number of 
shares that may vest under the BMP by an appropriate amount (in respect of an award made pursuant to the annual bonus payment subject 
to the clawback). The Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a BMP award in circumstances of financial misstatement,  
or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other 
circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
 
– Malus and clawback for the PSP and DSP – the Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a PSP and/or DSP award in 
circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy  
or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Committee’s judgement and discretion
In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives payable, the Committee 
has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to executive directors’ remuneration. These include, but are not limited to:
 
– reviewing the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and applying discretion to amend the final outcome, to ensure that bonus payments 
reflect overall performance;
 
– deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award; and
 
– determining whether a leaver is a “good leaver”.
Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant directors’ remuneration report.
92
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Remuneration scenarios
The composition and value of the executive directors’ remuneration packages at threshold, target and outperformance scenarios under the  
Drax Group remuneration policy are set out in the charts below. The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following table:
Scenario
Base salary, pension and benefits
Annual bonus
PSP
Minimum
Salary is the rate payable to each director from 
1 January 2017
The value of benefits is taken from the single 
figure for the year ended 31 December 2016
Pension is the value of the pension payable on 
the salary rate used
None
None
Target
50% of the maximum bonus
TSR: 62.5% vesting (midpoint between threshold 
and maximum)
Scorecard: 50% vesting
Maximum
Maximum bonus (150% of salary for Group Chief 
Executive, 140% of salary for other executive 
directors)
Maximum PSP opportunity (175% of salary) with 
no allowance for share price appreciation or 
dividend equivalents
Dorothy Thompson (Chief Executive, 
Drax Group) Remuneration £000s
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Fixed elements
Annual variable
Multi-period variable
Minimum
100%
765
1,760
2,630
44%
29%
24%
33%
32%
38%
On Target Maximum
Will Gardiner (Chief Financial Ofﬁcer)
Remuneration £000s
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Fixed elements
Annual variable
Multi-period variable
Minimum
100%
492
1,149
1,720
43%
28%
24%
32%
33%
40%
On Target Maximum
Andy Koss (Chief Executive, Drax Power)
Remuneration £000s
1,500
1,200
900
300
600
0
Fixed elements
Annual variable
Multi-period variable
Minimum
100%
393
916
1,370
43%
29%
24%
32%
33%
39%
On Target Maximum
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee will apply the core principles on page 84 and the components set out in the table on pages 86 to 89 to determine the 
remuneration of newly appointed directors. Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the director being 
appointed. Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to good performance.  
In relation to directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment  
of the director, the Committee may:
 
– pay “sign-on” compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives (subject to 
the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Company’s right to clawback any amount 
which is subsequently paid to the executive by the former employer, and to clawback an appropriate proportion of the payment if the 
executive leaves soon after appointment); and
 
– make appropriate payments in circumstances where a director is relocated from outside the UK.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
93
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Service agreements and compensation on loss of office
Executive directors’ service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months’ notice.
Element
Details
Notice periods
Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Under each of the executive directors’ service agreements, the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that 
payment being the salary and benefits that would have accrued to the executive director during the contractual notice period.
Compensation 
for loss of office
If an executive director’s employment is brought to an end by either party and if it is necessary to determine a termination payment, the Committee’s policy,  
in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to determine a director’s termination payment in accordance with his/her service 
agreement. The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the director 
during the contractual notice period. The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving director when 
appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement. It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation  
if the director has secured another job at a similar level. Mitigation would not apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his/her statutory rights. No service agreement includes any provision for the payment 
of compensation upon termination. Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time and in the light of 
the circumstances. 
Treatment of 
annual bonus on 
termination 
All bonus payments are discretionary benefits. The Committee will consider whether a departing director should receive an annual bonus in respect of the 
financial year in which, and/or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the 
date of termination. The Committee will take into account performance; cooperation with succession; any breach of goodwill, and adherence to contractual 
obligations/restrictions. If the termination is by the Company on less than the notice specified in the director’s service agreement, the Committee will also 
consider whether the director should receive an annual bonus in respect of any period of the financial year following termination for which the director has 
been deprived of the opportunity to earn annual bonus. If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the director will be treated as a “good 
leaver” and the director will be eligible for a bonus payment:
– 
redundancy;
– 
retirement;
– 
ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company; and
– 
death.
If the termination is for any other reason, a bonus payment will be at the Committee’s discretion and it is the Committee’s policy to ensure that any such bonus 
payment properly reflects the departing director’s performance and behaviour towards the Company. Therefore the amount of any such payment will be 
determined as described in the table on page 87, taking into account (i) the director’s personal performance and behaviour towards the Company and (ii) the 
Group performance. If a bonus payment is made, it will normally be paid as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been 
determined for the relevant period. There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the bonus payment to be made earlier, 
for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target Group performance score shall be assumed.
No payment will be made unless the director is employed on the date of bonus payment, except for “good leavers” as defined above. 
Treatment of 
unvested 
long-term 
incentive and 
deferred share 
awards on 
termination
The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the director under the BMP, DSP and PSP should lapse or vest. 
Any determination by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the BMP (as approved by shareholders), DSP and PSP.
In summary, the rules of the BMP and PSP provide that awards will vest (pro-rated to the date of employment termination) if employment ends for any of the 
following reasons (“long-term good leaver reasons”):
– 
redundancy;
– 
retirement;
– 
ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company; 
– 
change of ownership; and
– 
death.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the BMP and PSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion. In doing so, it will take account of all 
relevant circumstances, in particular, the Company’s performance; the director’s performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance 
cycle of the relevant awards; and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, deferred and conditional shares vest as soon as reasonably practicable following 
termination. Awards, which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated and will be phased over the 
performance cycle of the relevant awards.
The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest (in full) if employment ends for any of the long-term “good leaver” reasons detailed above.  
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the DSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion. In doing so it will take account of all relevant 
circumstances, in particular, the Company’s performance; the director’s performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of 
the relevant awards; and a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the DSP and PSP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises 
discretion to vest awards earlier. Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions will be (time) pro-rated.
Outside 
appointments
Executive directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chairman’s approval. Normally only one appointment to a listed company would 
be approved. Fees may be retained by the director. 
94
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Consideration of circumstances for leavers
The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving director is fair and appropriate, taking account of all 
relevant circumstances. Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award an annual bonus payment and/or permit 
the vesting of PSP awards include:
 
– the director’s continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice; and
 
– the director accommodating the Company in the timing of his/her departure and handover arrangements.
Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is:
 
– poor performance; or
 
– the director does not continue to perform effectively following notice.
Remuneration of non-executive directors and Chairman
Remuneration component  
and link to strategy
Practical operation
Maximum potential value
Fees 
To attract a Chairman and 
independent non-executive 
directors who, together with the 
executive directors, form a Board 
with a broad range of skills 
and experience.
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee whilst that of the other non-executive 
directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors. These are determined in the 
light of:
– 
fees of chairmen and non-executive directors of other listed companies selected for comparator 
purposes, on the same basis as for executive directors;
– 
the responsibilities and time commitment; and
– 
the need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience.
Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators. They were last 
reviewed in 2016. Current fee levels are shown in the annual report on remuneration.
The Chairman receives an annual fee.
Non-executive directors receive an annual base fee.
Additional annual fees are paid:
– 
to the Senior Independent Director (which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other 
than the Audit Committee);
– 
to the Chair of the Audit Committee;
– 
to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee; and
– 
to the Chair of any other Committee (this is not paid to the Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee if he or she is also the Chairman of the Board).
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration 
arrangements.
Overall aggregate fees paid to all 
non-executive directors will remain 
within the limit as stated in the 
Company’s Articles (currently 
£1,000,000).
Expenses
Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are reimbursed as applicable.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the Group’s 
share-based reward plans.
The Chairman’s notice period is six months whilst the other non-executive directors have a notice period of one month.
Differences between the policy and that of the remuneration of employees generally
The following differences apply between the remuneration of directors and the policy on the remuneration of employees generally:
 
– executive directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for PSP awards, however, there are differences in terms of levels of grant;
 
– annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, and the requirement to defer a portion of annual bonus applies only to executive directors;
 
– employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus subject to Company performance and 
continued employment, whereas directors and all other UK-based employees participate in a discretionary bonus scheme; and
 
– hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
95
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Context
Wider employee population
In determining executive remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group.
The Committee’s policy is that annual salary increases for executive directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase for the wider 
employee population, unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an 
executive director has been appointed at a salary below market level reflecting experience in the role.
The Committee has considered a number of comparison metrics when determining its approach to executive remuneration, including the ratio of 
Group Chief Executive to median employee pay. The Committee considered that the ratio is appropriate, particularly as the majority of the Group 
Chief Executive’s pay is performance linked.
Views taken from the employee population
In the course of discussions on pay with employee representatives, the Group discusses executive remuneration policy and provides details of the 
process by which the Committee establishes executive remuneration packages. The information provided includes details of the benchmarking 
of executive director remuneration, as well as information benchmarking the pay of employees in the collective bargaining unit with pay 
elsewhere in the industry.
Environmental, social and governance issues
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of 
executive directors. Specific measures can be included in the balanced corporate scorecard. The Committee is also able to consider these issues 
in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score, and in considering the performance conditions override under the 
PSP, as described on page 88.
Shareholder engagement
The Company holds regular meetings with its largest shareholders, and the Committee takes into account any shareholder views or 
representations relating to executive remuneration. The Company has consulted its 12 largest shareholders in relation to the formulation of its 
new directors’ remuneration policy.
96
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Annual report on remuneration
The relevant sections of this report have been audited as required by the Regulations.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director (audited information)
The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and the breakdown for each executive director for 2016, together with comparative 
figures for 2015:
Salary/Fees  
(£000)
Pension  
(£000)
Bonus(1)  
(£000)
BMP(2)  
(£000)
Other benefits  
(£000)
Total  
(£000)
Name
2016
2015
2016
2015
2016
2015
2016
2015
2016
2015
2016
2015
Dorothy Thompson
574
571
115
114
756
393
60
96
76
74
1,581
1,248
Will Gardiner(3)
390
49
78
10
479
34
–
–
24
3
971
96
Andy Koss(4)
310
n/a
62
n/a
381
n/a
16
n/a
21
n/a
790
n/a
Notes:
(1) Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to 
continued service.
(2) BMP is the value of the BMP Matching Awards vesting in March 2017, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares. The value is calculated based on the average share 
price over the last quarter of 2016.
(3) Will Gardiner was appointed as a director on 16 November 2015.
(4) Andy Koss was appointed as a director on 1 January 2016.
Base salaries
The base salaries of the executive directors as at 31 December 2016, together with comparative figures as at 31 December 2015, are shown in the 
following table:
Base salary
as at 
31 December 
2016
£000
Base salary
as at 
31 December 
2015
£000
Percentage 
increase
Andy Koss(1)
310
n/a
n/a
Will Gardiner
390
390
0%
Dorothy Thompson
574
574
0%
Note:
(1) Andy Koss was appointed as a director on 1 January 2016.
Annual fees
The Chairman’s fee was set at £250,000 on his appointment on 22 April 2015 and the fee was reviewed on 16 September 2016. Non-executive 
directors’ fees were last reviewed on 1 August 2015. Fee rates as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are shown in the following table:
Fees at 
31 December 
2016 
£000
Fees at 
31 December 
2015 
£000
Percentage 
increase
Chairman
250
250
0%
Non-Executive Director base fee
55
55
0%
Senior Independent Director
10
10
0%
Audit Committee Chair
10
10
0%
Remuneration Committee Chair
10
10
0%
Nominations Committee Chair(1)
7.5
7.5
0%
Note:
(1) This is not paid if the Chairman of the Nominations Committee is also the Chairman of the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
97
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director for 2016 together with comparative 
figures for 2015:
Board fee (£000)
Other fees (£000)
Total (£000)
2016
2015
2016
2015
2016
2015
Philip Cox
Chairman of Board
250
190
–
–
250
190
Chairman of Nominations Committee
Tim Cobbold
55
55
–
–
55
55
Melanie Gee(1)
17
55
–
–
17
55
David Lindsell
55
55
Senior Independent Director
10
10
Chairman of Audit Committee
10
10
75
75
Tony Thorne
55
55
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
10
10
65
65
Note:
(1) Melanie Gee retired as a director of the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 20 April 2016. She received her annual fee pro-rated to her date of leaving.
98
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Details of performance against metrics for variable pay awards
Annual bonus plan outcome
A summary of the Committee’s assessment in respect of the 2016 Scorecard is set out in the following table:
Target 
 weighting
Low target
Target
Stretch  
target
Outturn
Score
Group – Corporate
Safety
Total recordable injury rate
5%
0.70
0.30
0.15
0.22
1.5
Finance
Group underlying earnings per share  
(pence)
10%
0.0
1.1
5.9
5.0
1.8
Group underlying EBITDA (£m)
10%
125
130
149
140
1.5
Cash balance at 31 December
10%
145
149
164
228.5
2.0
Group operating costs (£m)
10%
248
238
218
236.3
1.1
Regulation
EU state aid approval of CfD 
20%
Late approval  
with conditionality
Timely approval  
no conditions
Early approval,  
no conditions
Close to target
0.9
General
Increasing support for Group’s business 
activities through media channels (1)
5% 
Consolidated score 
– significantly 
unfavourable
Consolidated score 
– favourable 
Consolidated score 
– significantly 
favourable
Above target
1.3
Drax Biomass
Availability H2
5%
Significantly  
below target
At target
Significantly  
above target
Below target
0.2
Pellet quality H2(2)
5%
Significantly  
below target
At target
Significantly  
above target
Above target
1.1
Drax Power
Value from operational flexibility and 
system support(3)
5%
£25m
£37m
£47m
£62m
2.0
Progress in further coal unit 
conversions 
5%
None
Executable options
Advanced progress 
Viable 
engineering 
options 
developed
0.5
Retail (Haven/BBE)
Margin improvement initiatives (MI) in 
2016(4)
5%
£1m
£2m
£3m
£3m
2.0
Renewable sales at a premium 
5%
Significantly below 
target performance
On target 
performance
Significantly above 
target performance
Above target
1.2
Total weighting
100%
1.3
Notes:
(1) Based on external assessment of media reports.
(2) Pellet quality combines calorific value, fines content at port and durability.
(3) Combined gross margin from using fuel optionality and generation flexibility and reliability.
(4) Management initiatives to improve margins and profitability without risking volume or cash.
Further details of how these individual metrics support the business strategy and drive both shareholder value and performance are found on 
pages 1 to 61.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
99
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The Committee made an in-depth review of the score for each of the performance measures, to make sure these were individually supportable, 
and then reviewed the overall outcome, to determine whether to exercise its discretion and adjust the final score. The majority of the measures 
are quantitative but for reasons of commercial sensitivity some of the targets are not disclosed in the Annual report. The Committee aims for 
maximum transparency so the decision not to disclose a target is closely reviewed. 50% of the measures were financial and some 50% related to 
the implementation of the strategy. Outlined below is a brief synopsis of the key strategic measures and their strategic rationale. 
Regulation: Securing the CfD – supports biomass conversion and improves predictability of revenues; 
General: Increasing support for Group’s activities – secure sustainability of biomass as a valued renewable technology; 
Drax Biomass: availability and quality – develop strong in-house pellet supply capability; 
Drax Power: value from operational flexibility – build sustained earnings from system support; progress in further coal unit conversion – create 
option for further conversion to biomass; 
Retail Haven: renewable sales at a premium – increase proportion of renewable power, in support of Group strategy. 
 
Personal performance
The members of the Executive Committee, including the executive directors were assessed both relative to their individual contribution in driving 
2016 performance, and as a team. Key to the assessment was each individual’s contribution to delivering the Group’s strategy and promotion of 
the Drax values. Individual and team performance were both considered to be at a high level. 
There was good cooperation across the executive team, which was fundamental to the successful development and implementation of 
the mitigating actions in response to the challenging commodity markets and the European Commission delay in the approval of the CfD. 
The Committee also recognised the collaborative approach to the development and implementation of the new strategy. 
With respect to the executive directors areas of particular note included:
 
– the Group Chief Executive’s strong and effective leadership of the Group, the work on sustainability and the development, promotion and 
implementation of the new strategy, which included two significant acquisitions;
 
– the Chief Financial Officer’s success in identifying and implementing efficient and effective solutions for the Group’s capital structure, his 
good support of the Group Chief Executive in the development and implementation of the new Group strategy, including responsibility for the 
IT strategy, the analysis of new opportunities and their potential fit to Drax and his leadership of the Opus acquisition, including the financing 
arrangements;
 
– the Chief Executive of Drax Power’s strong leadership of the Drax generating plant, completion of the biomass transformation through the 
conversion of the third unit, the significant revenue initiatives within ancillary services, the work on the CfD and the leadership of the 
acquisition of the four development projects to build fast response gas plants.
The Committee determined that the three executive directors had performed strongly and that it was appropriate to give the same personal 
performance score to each. A score of 1.35 out of 1.5 was awarded.
Actual bonus awards for 2016
Executive director
Value of
bonus(1)
£000
2016 bonus
payment
(as a % of
base salary)
Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive, Drax Group
756
132%
Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer
479
123%
Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power
381
123%
Notes:
(1) The value of the bonus shown in the table above is made up of 65% paid in cash and 35% deferred into shares.
Details of deferred bonus share awards (audited information)
The following deferred bonus shares, which were awarded in 2013 in respect of the 2012 annual bonus, vested in 2016.
Executive director
Value of
vesting(1)
£000
Number of
shares
Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive, Drax Group
80
29,494
Notes:
(1) The value of the vesting is based on the share price (270.27 pence) at which the shares were subject to income tax and National Insurance Contributions on the vesting date.
(2) Paul Taylor ceased to be a director on 31 December 2015 but remained an employee. His deferred bonus shares awarded in 2013 in respect of the 2012 annual bonus vested in 2016. The total 
number of shares which vested from those awards (including dividend shares) was 12,810 and the value of the vesting was £34,622, which was based on the share price (270.27 pence) at which 
the shares were subject to income tax and National Insurance Contributions on the vesting date.
100
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Detail of BMP incentive outcomes (audited information)
Awards under the BMP, which were subject to performance conditions and which vested in 2016, were:
 
– TSR performance condition: 0%
 
– Scorecard performance condition: 43.33%
Directors’ interests under the BMP
The table below shows the interests of the executive directors in the Company’s BMP, as at 31 December 2016 and 15 February 2017.
As at  
1 January  
2016
Awards
made  
during  
the year
Awards 
vesting 
during  
the year
Awards 
lapsing 
during  
the year
As at  
31 December 
2016
Face value  
of awards  
(£)
Dorothy Thompson
2013 Matching Award
162,146
–
35,128
127,018
–
–
2013 Deferred Award
27,024
–
27,024
–
–
–
Dividend shares awarded
–
5,682
5,682
–
–
–
2014 Matching Award
131,425
–
–
–
131,425
£496,655
2014 Deferred Award
21,904
–
–
–
21,904
£82,775
2015 Matching Award
225,958
–
–
–
225,958
£853,895
2015 Deferred Award
52,723
–
–
–
52,723
£199,240
2016 Matching Award
–
254,183
–
–
254,183
£960,558
2016 Deferred Award
–
59,309
–
–
59,309
£224,129
Total
621,180
319,174
67,834
127,018
745,502 £2,817,252
Will Gardiner
2016 Matching Award
–
353,504
–
–
353,504
£1,335,891
2016 Deferred Award
–
5,063
–
–
5,063
£19,133
Total
–
358,567
–
–
358,567 £1,355,024
Andy Koss
2013 Matching Award
26,512
–
5,743
20,769
–
–
2014 Matching Award
33,982
–
–
–
33,982
£128,417
2015 Matching Award
49,160
–
–
–
49,1601
£185,775
2016 Matching Award
–
61,999
–
–
61,999
£234,294
Total
109,654
61,999
5,743
20,769
145,141 £548,486
Notes:
(1) In accordance with the BMP rules, dividend shares are only awarded, at the time and in the event that, awards actually vest. No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse. 
The number of dividend shares awarded is calculated based on the actual dividends paid to ordinary shareholders in the period following the initial award up until the award vests.
(2) The Deferred Awards referred to above are the share awards made in respect of the deferral of cash bonus awarded each year. Those share awards operate under the rules of the BMP.
(3) Details of the conditions subject to which the above awards will vest are given on page 91.
(4) The face value of the awards is calculated based on the share price on 31 December 2016, which was 377.9 pence per share.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
101
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The table below shows former directors’ interests in the Company’s BMP, as at 31 December 2016 and 15 February 2017.
As at  
1 January  
2016
Awards 
made  
during  
the year
Awards 
vesting 
during  
the year
Awards 
lapsing 
during  
the year
As at  
31 December 
2016
Face value  
of awards  
(£)
Peter Emery(5)
2013 Matching Award
83,817
–
17,197
66,620
–
–
2013 Deferred Award
13,970
–
13,230
740
–
–
Dividend shares awarded
–
2,778
–
–
–
–
2014 Matching Award
67,936
–
–
–
67,936
£256,730
2014 Deferred Award
11,322
–
6,952
4,370
–
–
2014 Dividend shares awarded
–
–
–
–
–
–
2015 Matching Award
123,833
–
–
–
123,833
£467,964
2015 Deferred Award
28,894
–
7,961
20,933
–
–
2015 Dividend shares awarded
–
–
–
–
–
–
Total
329,772
2,778
45,340
92,663
191,769
£724,694
Paul Taylor(6)
2013 Matching Award
70,434
–
15,259
55,175
–
–
2013 Deferred Award
11,739
–
11,739
–
–
–
Dividend shares awarded
–
2,465
2,465
–
–
–
2014 Matching Award
57,089
–
–
–
57,089
£215,739
2014 Deferred Award
9,514
–
–
–
9,514
£35,953
2015 Matching Award
104,062
–
–
–
104,062
£393,250
2015 Deferred Award
24,281
–
–
–
24,281
£91,757
2016 Matching Award
–
–
–
–
–
–
2016 Deferred Award
–
27,314
–
–
27,314
£103,219
Total
277,119
29,779
29,463
55,175
222,260
£839,918
Notes:
(1) In accordance with the BMP rules, dividend shares are only awarded at the time and in the event that, awards actually vest. No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse. 
The number of dividend shares awarded is calculated based on the actual dividends paid to ordinary shareholders in the period following the initial award up until the award vests.
(2) The Deferred Awards referred to above are the share awards made in respect of the deferral of cash bonus awarded each year. Those share awards operate under the rules of the BMP.
(3) Details of the conditions subject to which the above awards will vest are given on page 91.
(4) The face value of the awards is calculated based on the share price on 31 December 2016, which was 377.9 pence per share.
(5) Peter Emery left the Company on 31 December 2015. The Awards which vested were pro-rated from the date of the Award to the date of leaving.
(6) Paul Taylor ceased to be a director on 31 December 2015 but he has continued in employment on a part-time basis. Paul’s 2016 BMP Award was in respect of his role as a director in 2015.
Total pension entitlements for defined contribution schemes (audited information)
Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Group’s defined contribution pension plan, with either an employer 
contribution of 20% of base salary, or contributions to a personal pension, or cash in lieu of pension, or a combination of any of these up to 
a maximum contribution of 20% of base salary.
No director was a member of the defined benefit pension scheme.
102
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Payments for loss of office
Melanie Gee ceased to be a non-executive director on 20 April 2016, following her retirement at the conclusion of the AGM. In 2016, she received 
her annual base fee of £55,000 as a non-executive director, pro-rated for the period 1 January 2016 to her date of leaving. The actual fees 
received for the period were £16,805.
Peter Emery ceased to be a director of the Company on 31 December 2015 and his service agreement terminated on that date. In 2016 he received 
a payment of £183,737, which was in line with the provisions of his service agreement and the Company’s remuneration policy as set out in this report. 
An initial payment of £183,737 in lieu of outstanding notice for the period 1 January 2016 to 10 November 2016 in respect of salary, pension payments 
and contractual benefits (“the PILON payment”) was paid in January 2016 as the initial payment of 50% of the PILON payment. Any further 
instalments of the PILON payment will be calculated when the value of his remuneration from alternative employment can be determined.
Shareholder voting
The table below shows the voting outcome for the Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 23 April 2014 and for the Annual report on remuneration 
at the AGM on 20 April 2016.
For
Against
Votes withheld
Total
Shares
(%)
Shares
(%)
Shares
(%)
Shares
(%)
Approval of the directors’ 
remuneration policy (2014)
272,348,741
82.00
17,116,591
5.16
42,643,941
12.84
332,109,273
100
Approval of the annual 
report on remuneration 
359,318,445
98.78
464,991
0.13
3,968,115
1.09
363,751,551
100
The new Remuneration Policy is subject to a shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
During the year, the shareholding guidelines required executive directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards, or who receive 
deferred bonus shares, to retain 50% of the shares received net (i.e. after income tax and National Insurance Contributions) until the value was 
equal to at least 175% and 125% of salary respectively for the Group Chief Executive and other executive directors. Only shares that have actually 
vested count towards the threshold.
As at 31 December 2016, the shareholding guidelines were met in part, as detailed in the table below, which also shows the executive directors’ 
shareholdings and share interests as at that date.
Beneficial 
ownership 
of director or 
connected 
persons
Deferred Awards not  
subject to performance
 Awards subject 
to performance
Name
Year ending 31 December 2016
Shares(2)
BMP Share 
Awards(3)
Sharesave 
Options
BMP Share 
Awards
Total
Will Gardiner
Number
41,346
5,063
14,778
353,504
414,691
Value at year end(1)
£156,247
£19,133
£55,846 £1,335,891
£1,567,117
Shareholding as a percentage of salary
40%
–
–
–
–
Andy Koss
Number
34,153
–
5,633
145,141
184,927
Value at year end(1)
£129,064
–
£21,287
£548,487
£698,839
Shareholding as a percentage of salary
61%
–
–
–
–
Dorothy Thompson
Number
329,512
133,936
4,637
611,566
1,079,651
Value at year end(1)
£1,245,225
£506,144
£17,523
£2,311,108
£4,080,001
Shareholding as a percentage of salary
217%
–
–
–
–
Notes:
(1) Share price at 31 December 2016 was 377.9 pence per share.
(2) Includes, where applicable, shares held by the Trustee of the Drax Group plc Share Incentive Plan.
(3) The deferred share awards not subject to performance are the annual bonus deferred shares.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
103
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors. The table below shows the shareholdings of the non-executive directors  
and their connected persons and the value as at 31 December 2016, when the share price was 377.9 pence per share.
Name
Number  
of shares
Value at  
year end
Tim Cobbold
1,000
£3,779
Philip Cox
60,000
£226,740
David Lindsell
7,500
£28,342
Tony Thorne
7,500
£28,342
Service agreements
The following table shows, for each director of the Company at 15 February 2017, or those who served as a director of the Company at any time during 
the year ended 31 December 2016, the start date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods.
Director
Contract start date
Contract term (years)
Unexpired term at the date of 
publication (months)
Notice period 
by the Company 
(months)
Notice period 
by the director 
(months)
Tim Cobbold
27 September 2016
3 years
2 years and 7 months
1
1
Philip Cox
1 January 2015
3 years
10 months
6
6
Will Gardiner
16 November 2015
Indefinite term
Not applicable
12
12
Melanie Gee
1 January 2016
3 years
Not applicable
1
1
Andy Koss
1 January 2016
Indefinite term
Not applicable
12
12
David Lindsell
1 December 2014
3 years
9 months
1
1
Dorothy Thompson
3 September 2013
Indefinite term
Not applicable
12
12
Tony Thorne
29 June 2016
3 years
2 years and 4 months
1
1
Drax eight-year TSR data to 31 December 2016
The following graph shows how the value of £100 invested in both the Company and the FTSE 350 index on 31 December 2008 has changed. 
This index has been chosen as a suitable broad comparator against which the Company’s shareholders may judge their relative returns given that, 
in recent years, the Company has been a member of the FTSE 350 index. The graph reflects the TSR (determined according to usual market 
practice) for the Company and the index referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2016.
0
31 Dec
2008
31 Dec
2009
31 Dec
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2012
31 Dec
2013
31 Dec
2014
31 Dec
2015
31 Dec
2016
50
150
100
200
300
250
350
Drax
FTSE 350
Group Chief Executive’s pay in last eight financial years
Year
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Dorothy Thompson’s total single figure (£000)
903
1,155
1,196
1,406
3,360
1,854
1,248
1,581
Bonus % of maximum awarded
77%
100%
100%
100%
100%
73%
46%
88%
BMP Matching Award % of maximum vesting
–
–
–
–
–
40.52%
21.66%
15.43%
104
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s remuneration compared with the wider employee population
The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 
compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees. The Committee has 
selected all Group employees below executive director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide 
the most appropriate comparator.
Bonus
Salary
Taxable 
benefits
£000
Percentage 
increase
Percentage 
increase
2015
2016
% increase
Dorothy Thompson
0%
2.7%
392.6
755.7
92%
Average for UK employees
2.7%
0.7%
4.5
6.6
46%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, namely distributions to 
shareholders and capital expenditure. These were the most significant outgoings from the Company in the last financial year, other than normal 
operating costs.
Notes:
(1) Remuneration 2015 see note 6.1.
(2) Capital expenditure 2015 see note 3.1.
(3) Dividends 2017 see note 2.7.
0
£50,000.000
£100,000,000
£150,000,000
£200,000,000
Dividends – 2015
Dividends – 2016(3)
Capital expenditure – 2015
Capital expenditure – 2016(2)
Remuneration – 2015
Remuneration – 2016(1)
Notes:
(1) Remuneration 2016 see note 6.1.
(2) Capital expenditure 2016 see note 3.1.
(3) Dividends 2017 see note 2.7.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
105
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2017
The Remuneration Policy will be implemented following the AGM in 2017 as follows:
The Committee will review salaries in accordance with the Policy and will take account of the increase in base pay of the collective bargaining 
group and other salary reviews in the Group.
Balanced corporate scorecard
The Scorecard measures and targets for 2017 have been established for the Group and for each Group business. Details of performance against 
the measures will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual report on remuneration so far as possible, whilst maintaining commercial confidentiality.  
The following table sets out the categories and a description of the measures.
Group
Safety – Total recordable injury rate
Low target and stretch have both been set at the same level as 2016.
Finance – Group underlying earnings  
per share, profit, net debt
Targets take account of Business Plan and current market expectations.
Drax Biomass fines at UK disport
Strategic target based on optimising quality across the whole supply chain.
New strategy implementation
Progress in implementing new Group strategy and defined deliverables for identified projects as well 
as qualitative assessment of further progress.
Drax Biomass
Variable costs 
Targets for cost reduction $/tonne, Drax Biomass strategic focus: production of low cost pellets  
at quality.
Output
Target for reliable production – Drax Biomass strategic focus: sustained reliable operations. 
Drax Power
Biomass unit technical availability 
performance
Target for high availability – Drax Power strategic focus: maximise sustained value through availability.
Value from operational flexibility 
and reliability
Target to capture value from system support – Drax Power strategic focus: sustained earnings from 
system support given increase in UK electricity system stress. 
Haven Power
Profit
Target based on Business Plan – Haven strategic focus: sustained profitable business at scale. 
Implementation of new ERP
Target based on detailed planned deliverables – Haven strategic focus: project delivery critical for 
strategy of achieving sustained profitability.
Opus
Profit
Target based on Business Plan – strategic focus: delivering value from acquisition.
Sales volume
Target based on Business Plan – strategic focus: delivering continued growth at Opus.
Renewal rate 
Target based on Business Plan – strategic focus: continued customer satisfaction to support growth 
and profitability.
Performance measures for Performance Share Plan
The performance measures to be used in 2017 PSP Awards are as described on page 88 in the Remuneration Policy report.
Non-executive directors’ fees
Non-executive directors’ fees will be reviewed by the Chairman and executive directors in July 2017.
106
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Committee activity and key decisions in 2016
Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2016 are shown in the table below:
February
Considered the 2015 balanced corporate scorecard and decided not to exercise its discretion to 
adjust the score.
Adopted the 2016 balanced corporate scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects 
of 2016 remuneration.
Approved executive director and senior staff personal scores and annual bonus awards for 2015.
Approved the Group Chief Executive’s annual bonus.
Approved the vesting of the 2013 BMP awards, which was reported in the 2016 Annual report 
on remuneration.
Considered succession planning.
Considered the pro-rating of deferred bonus awards.
Considered and approved the 2015 Annual Remuneration report.
Approved awards under the BMP and all-employee Sharesave Share Plan.
Approved the proposed approach and outline timetable for the review of the Remuneration Policy 
in preparation for its presentation to the 2017 AGM for approval.
March
Approved the retention of PwC as Remuneration Committee adviser.
Considered a proposal for senior staff and executive directors’ salary review.
Considered the Remuneration Policy review.
June
Considered the Remuneration Policy review.
Agreed the remuneration terms for Jonathan Kini’s appointment to the Executive Committee.
Considered the detail of the payments in respect of Peter Emery’s payment in lieu of notice (PILON) 
payment.
September
Reviewed the Chairman’s remuneration.
Considered the Remuneration Policy review.
November
Noted the performance status of outstanding share plans and approved in principle the operation 
of share plans in 2017.
Reviewed the fees paid to PwC as, the Committee’s remuneration adviser, together with fees paid by 
the Group to PwC for other matters, and reviewed PwC’s independence.
In 2016, the Remuneration Committee comprised Tony Thorne, Chairman of the Committee; Tim Cobbold; Philip Cox; David Lindsell; and Melanie Gee 
(until 20 April 2016), all of whom are independent non-executive directors. The Group Company Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Chief Executive was invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when her own remuneration was discussed.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year and its members’ attendance record is set out on page 82, along with details of other attendees.
Adviser to the Committee
The adviser to the Committee for the year was PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee 
in October 2010, following a competitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of executive and non-executive directors.
From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specific matters. The Committee will continue to 
monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwC’s independence as an adviser to the Committee.
PwC was paid £78,000 during 2016 in respect of advice given to the Committee.
The Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive regarding the performance and remuneration of the other executive 
directors and senior staff.
During 2016, the Committee has also been advised by Philip Hudson, the Group Company Secretary (to 30 June 2016), David McCallum, the Group 
Company Secretary (from 1 July 2016), Richard Neville, Head of Human Resources (to 31 July 2016) and Samantha Brook, Head of Corporate HR 
(from 1 August 2016).
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
107
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Other matters
Wider employee population
The average pensionable pay of an executive director is 9.6 times the average of pensionable pay for all UK employees within the Group.
Remuneration received from external appointments
Remuneration received by executive directors for service as a non-executive director elsewhere is retained by the director. Detailed below is the 
remuneration they received.
Fees received
Name
External organisation
2015
2016
Dorothy Thompson
Johnson Matthey Plc (resigned 20 July 2016)
£76,000
£43,000
Dorothy Thompson
Court of the Bank of England
£15,000
£15,000
Dorothy Thompson
Eaton Corporation plc (appointed 29 July 2016)
–
£58,000
Will Gardiner
Qardio plc
–
–
This report was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee on 15 February 2017.
Tony Thorne
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
108
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
This report contains information which the Company is obliged 
to disclose and which cannot be found in the strategic, financial, 
sustainability or corporate governance reports of this document.
The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, 
together with the financial statements and auditor’s report for the year 
ended 31 December 2016. The Corporate governance section, Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committee reports set out on pages 
62 to 107 form part of this report.
No significant events have arisen since the balance sheet date. 
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the 
Company and details of research and development activities are 
included in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the 
Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 7.2 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 11.30am on Thursday 13 April 2017 at The Grand 
Hotel and Spa, Station Rise, York, YO1 6GD. A separate document 
contains the notice convening the AGM and includes an explanation 
of the business to be conducted at the meeting.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share was paid on 7 October 2016, 
to shareholders on the register on 23 September 2016.
The directors propose a final dividend of 0.4 pence per share, which 
will, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, be paid on  
12 May 2017, to shareholders on the register on 21 April 2017.
Details of past dividends can be found on the Company’s website at 
http://www.drax.com/investors/financial-history/#dividend-history/ 
No shareholder has waived or agreed to waive dividends payable in the 
year or in future years.
Share capital
The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are ordinary 
shares of 1116⁄29 pence each. There are no restrictions on the voting 
rights of the ordinary shares.
Drax Group plc has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and currently trades as part of the FTSE 250 Index, under the symbol 
DRX and with the ISIN number GB00B1VNSX38.
Shares in issue
At 1 January 2016
406,317,162
Issued in period through the Bonus Matching Plan(1)
365,937
Issued in period through the Sharesave Plan(2)
17,222
At 31 December 2016
406,700,321
Issued between 1 January and 14 February 2017 
through the Sharesave Plan
2,216
At 14 February 2017
406,702,537
Notes:
(1) 103 members of the Bonus Matching Plan had shares vest at the third anniversary following 
the Award and one employee had Deferred Awards vest upon leaving the Company. 
(2) Two members of the Sharesave Plan exercised options at the maturity of their 2011 
five-year grant, and seven members exercised their options early upon retirement or 
redundancy. 
No other ordinary shares were issued during the year and the Company 
held no treasury shares during 2016. The position remains the same at 
the date of this report.
GOVERNANCE
109
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Interests in voting rights
Information provided to the Company in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) is published in 
a timely manner on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulatory News Service – a Regulatory Information Service and also on the Company’s website.
As at 15 February 2017, the following information had been received in accordance with DTR5 from holders of notifiable interests in the voting 
rights of the Company. The information provided below was correct at the date of notification. However, investors are only obliged to notify the 
Company when a notifiable threshold is crossed and therefore it should be noted that the holdings below may have changed but without 
crossing a threshold.
Date last 
notification made
Number of 
voting rights 
directly held
Number of 
voting rights 
indirectly held
Number of 
voting rights in 
qualifying financial 
instruments
Total number 
of voting rights 
held
% of the issued 
share capital 
held(2)
Invesco plc(1)
 10.01.2017
–
89,210,833
–
89,210,833
21.93%
Schroders plc
09.12.2016
–
62,338,377
–
62,338,377
15.32%
Woodford Investment Management LLP
19.08.2014
–
21,703,125
–
21,703,125
5.36%
Investec Asset Management Limited
19.12.2016
–
20,204,001
–
20,204,001
4.97%
Artemis Investment Management LLP
06.05.2016
–
20,278,415
–
20,278,415
4.99%
Orbis Holdings Limited
01.12.2016
–
20,241,875
–
20,241,875
4.98%
Notes: 
Ordinary shares of 1116/29 pence each
(1) As at 31 December 2016, Invesco plc had voting rights over 93,521,993 shares. All other shareholdings were as stated in this table as at 31 December 2016.
(2) As at the date of the last notification made to the Company by the investor, in compliance with DTR.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the AGM held on 20 April 2016, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share 
capital. At the forthcoming AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2016, nor has it done so from 31 December 2016 up to the date of this report.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
There are various rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares which are set out in the Articles. A copy of the Articles can be accessed 
on the Company’s website at http://www.drax.com/about-us/compliance-and-policies/
Attention should be given to the following sections within the Articles, covering the rights and obligations attaching to shares:
Variation of rights – which covers the rights attached to any class of shares that may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less 
than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate 
General Meeting of the holders of those shares.
Transfer of shares – provides detail of how transfers of shares in certified and uncertified form may be undertaken. It also sets out the directors’ 
rights of refusal to effect a transfer and the action that directors must take following such refusal. It should be noted that a shareholder does not 
need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other holders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Voting and deadlines for exercising voting rights – these sections of the Articles deal with voting on a show of hands and on a poll. They also 
cover the appointment of a proxy or corporate representative. In respect of voting deadlines, the Articles provide for the submission of proxy 
forms not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting. It has been the Company’s practice since incorporation 
to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings.
A trustee holds shares on behalf of employees in respect of the Group’s Share Incentive Plan. The voting rights attached to such shares are not 
directly exercisable by the employees. The employee may direct the trustee on how to vote at a General Meeting and the trustee may only cast 
its vote in respect of shares over which it has received a valid direction from employees.
Changes to the Articles – the Articles may only be changed by shareholders by special resolution.
110
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Other significant agreements
In the Group’s financing agreements, as detailed below, on a change 
of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to the relevant 
Group entity within 30 days of receiving notice from such Group entity 
that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and 
require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within 
three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
The financing agreements comprise:
 
– The £100 million amortising term loan facility agreement dated 
20 December 2012 (as amended and restated on 8 December 2015) 
between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited and the Prudential 
M&G UK Companies Financing Fund. 
 
– The £50 million amortising term loan facility agreement dated 
20 December 2012 (as amended and restated on 8 December 2015) 
between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited and the Green 
Investment Bank. 
 
– The £400 million revolving credit facility agreement dated 
20 December 2012 (as amended and restated on 8 December 2015) 
between, amongst others, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank 
PLC (as facility agent). 
 
– The £75 million guarantee and reimbursement arrangement issued 
by The Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury dated 
23 April 2013 (as amended and restated on 8 December 2015) in 
respect of a £75 million guaranteed loan note instrument issued 
by Drax Finance Limited to Friends Life Limited. 
 
– Two note purchase agreements dated 8 May 2014 (as amended 
and restated on 8 December 2015) of £100 million in aggregate, 
in each case between Drax Finance Limited and various funds 
managed by M&G Investments. 
Under the terms of the above financing agreements, a “change of 
control” occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert 
gains control of Drax Group plc.
In addition to the above, on 6 December 2016, Drax Group plc entered 
into a commitment for a £375 million acquisition facility. Once the 
subsequent financing agreement is signed, a “change of control” 
occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control 
of Drax Group plc or Drax Group Holdings Limited.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Group is a 
party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control 
of the Group following a takeover bid.
Strategic report
The Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 contains disclosures in relation to 
employee participation, Greenhouse Gas emissions and third party 
indemnity provisions for which the Company is responsible.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, and 
that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that 
the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons 
should, so far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditor
So far as each person serving as a director at the date of approving 
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being 
information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing the 
report, of which the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries of 
fellow directors, each director has taken all steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. This 
information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM for (i) the reappointment 
of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Group; and (ii) authorising the 
directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. As explained, the 
Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditor’s 
effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, including the level of 
audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor. Further details on the 
work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit 
Committee report on pages 77 to 81.
The directors’ report was approved by the Board on 15 February 2017 
and is signed on its behalf by:
David McCallum
Group Company Secretary
Registered office:
Drax Power Station
Selby
North Yorkshire
YO8 8PH
Registered in England and Wales No. 5562053
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
111
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 
the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law), set out in FRS 101 “Reduced 
Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors must not 
approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss  
of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors 
are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 
– state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that directors:
 
– properly select and apply accounting policies;
 
– present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 
– provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 
– make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 
– the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole;
 
– the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
 
– the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors 
on 15 February 2017 and is signed on its behalf by:
Dorothy Thompson CBE
Chief Executive, Drax Group
Will Gardiner
Chief Financial Officer
 
DIRECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
112
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC
Opinion on financial statements of Drax Group plc
In our opinion:
 
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and 
of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
 
– the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 
– the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
 
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise:
 
– the Consolidated Income Statement;
 
– the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income;
 
– the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets;
 
– the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement;
 
– the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity;
 
– the related Group notes 2.1 to 8.4 and
 
– the related Parent Company notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial 
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including 
FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Summary of our audit approach
Key risks
The key risks that we identified in the current year were:
 
– Asset impairment
 
– Useful economic life assumptions
 
– Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts
 
– Existence and valuation of biomass stocks
 
– Valuation and recoverability of ROCs
Materiality
The materiality that we used in the current year was £4.2 million which was determined based on a blended basis taking into 
consideration a number of available metrics.
Scoping
We focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power and Drax Biomass. 
All of these were subject to a full scope audit. These three locations represent the principal business units and account for all of the 
group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Significant changes in our approach
Our audit approach remains consistent to the prior year. We have refined our key risk in relation to stocks and have focused specifically 
on biomass existence and valuation and identified a new risk in relation to the useful economic life assumptions adopted.
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 
– the directors’ confirmation on page 61 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 
– the disclosures on pages 55 to 61 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 
– the directors’ statement on page 111 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s ability to continue to do so over 
a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 
– the directors’ explanation on page 54 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done 
so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to 
in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption 
of the going concern basis of accounting 
and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not 
all future events or conditions can 
be predicted, this statement is not a 
guarantee as to the group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
FINANCIALS
113
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are 
independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of 
the group and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with those standards. We also confirm 
we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred 
to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This year we have refined the risk relating to stocks to focus on the existence and valuation of biomass stocks, as opposed to coal and biomass 
stocks in the prior year as this is where we consider the most judgement to exist. As per note 3.3, biomass stocks have increased from £119 million 
at 31 December 2015 to £198 million at 31 December 2016. Coal stocks have reduced from £89 million at 31 December 2015 to £66 million at 
31 December 2016. This reflects the development of the plant.
Useful economic life assumptions has been identified as a new risk in the year. As part of the most recent annual review of asset lives, the estimated 
useful life of coal-specific assets at Drax Power Station will be revised with effect from 1 January 2017 and this is considered to be a key judgement.
Risk
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Asset Impairment
The Group’s market capitalisation continues to be below its asset value. Additional 
contributing factors in the current year which increase the risk of impairment includes 
the depreciation of sterling following the Brexit vote, delays in the approval of the CfD, 
the UK Government consultation on the future of coal generating assets within the UK 
power industry and continued softness in commodity markets. Management has 
therefore performed an impairment review in the current year.
As noted in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in 
note 2.4 and the Audit Committee report on page 77, asset impairment has been 
considered a key risk by the Audit Committee.
The impairment testing is subject to the application of management judgement in 
identifying cash-generating units (CGUs) and various assumptions underlying the 
calculation of the value in use for each CGU identified. This assessment also considers 
changes in the business which may give rise to additional CGUs, for example the 
approval of the CfD on Unit 1 in the current year.
Additionally, these assumptions include the achievability of the long-term business 
plan and related modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
The significant judgements have been disclosed by management in note 2.4 and include:
 
– The expected operating lives of the six generating units
 
– Future commodity prices beyond the horizon of existing contracted purchases, 
particularly long-term power prices at both baseload and peak times, and biomass 
prices in the long term given that biomass is not a standardised commodity traded 
openly on exchanges;
 
– Future foreign exchange rates beyond the horizon of existing contracted purchase 
commitments;
 
– the continuance of existing biomass support regimes until 2027 and the existence 
of a favourable economic environment for biomass generation thereafter; and
 
– The discount rate applied to forecast future cash flows.
We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to 
asset impairment.
We have challenged management’s identification of CGUs, taking into consideration 
the independence of cash flows across key components of the business and 
generating units.
We utilised our valuation specialists to benchmark key market related assumptions 
including commodity prices, current and future capacity and other support 
mechanisms and discount rates against external data where available. For example, we 
have compared the commodity price assumptions to the latest available Department 
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (DBEIS), Department of Energy and 
Climate Change (DECC) and National Grid forecasts.
We have considered the liquidity of the biomass market and the impact that Drax could 
have on that market relating to the volumes of biomass required in the future.
We have also challenged the underlying assumptions and significant judgements used 
in management’s impairment model by:
 
– Running a range of sensitivities to assess whether an impairment would be required 
if a range of more conservative assumptions were adopted;
 
– Assessing the historical accuracy of management’s budgets and forecasts by 
comparing them to actual performance and verifying the mathematical accuracy of 
the cash flow models; and
 
– Assessing whether the disclosures in note 2.4 of the financial statements 
appropriately disclose the key judgements taken so that the reader of the accounts 
is aware of the impact of the financial statement of changes to key assumptions 
that may lead to impairment.
Useful economic life assumptions
Previously, the useful economic life of the power station was assumed to end in 2039. 
Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future replacement cycles and 
other available evidence; however an inherent degree of judgement remains.
As per note 3.1, as part of the most recent annual review of asset lives, the estimated 
useful life of coal-specific assets at Drax Power Station will be revised with effect from 
1 January 2017. On 9 November 2016 the Government announced a consultation on 
the future closure of unabated coal-fired generation. Following this, management 
concluded that coal generation will most likely cease during 2025, shortening the 
useful lives of the coal-specific assets which will not be required to support generation 
after this date.
Management believe this change will result in an increase of approximately £27 million 
per annum in depreciation charges from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2025.
We have considered a number of factors as part of our audit including challenging the 
reasonableness of key assumptions such as:
 
– the adequacy of the current and proposed depreciation assumptions across the 
generation asset base;
 
– consideration of the future ability to generate economic value;
 
– factors affecting primary income streams including forecast spreads and external 
factors including political and regulatory requirements; and
 
– Consistency of the UEL assessment with the impairment analysis above.
We have also assessed whether 1 January 2017 is an appropriate date from which to 
amend the useful economic life.
114
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED
Risk
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts recognised in the income statement are 
£177m (2015: £124m), with total assets of £891m and liabilities of £364m recognised on 
the balance sheet as at the year end. We note that £666m of assets relate to foreign 
currency derivatives at the current year end (2015: £36m).
The valuation of derivative contracts is complex and requires judgement in areas 
including the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies and assumptions in 
respect of future market prices and credit risk factors.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosure in the Group’s critical accounting 
judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 117 and 118 and the Audit 
Committee report on page 77.
We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to the 
valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
We used our financial instrument specialists to test management’s key judgements 
and calculations, including testing a sample of trades undertaken to trade tickets 
confirming key information such as volumes and contracted prices.
We have assessed the valuation models used by management to determine the fair 
value of the derivative instruments and performed independent valuations across a 
sample of both commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
We have analysed the appropriateness of management’s forward price curve 
assumptions by benchmarking these to third party sources and reviewed the 
consistency of the assumptions used across other areas of the financial statements 
such as asset impairment.
We have challenged management’s approach and assumptions involved in assessing 
fair value adjustment such as credit risk, time value of money and spread adjustments.
Existence and valuation of biomass stocks
Biomass stocks of £198 million (2015: £119 million) are held on the balance sheet at year 
end. The most significant judgement relating to stock is considered to be the existence 
and valuation of biomass stocks held on-site £21 million.
Given the storage and handling characteristics of the on-site biomass stocks, judgement 
is inherent in calculating the volume of biomass stocks owned by the Group because it 
is not practical to physically count the stocks at year end. Further details of the key 
accounting policy judgements are included in note 3.3, and as noted, the calibrated 
weighers and efficiency calculations are subject to a range of tolerable errors.
The valuation of biomass is dependent upon the estimation or measurement of the 
tonnage held, the calorific value, its purchase price and its net realisable value.
The weighted average cost calculation is complex and dependant on the tonnage held. 
This results in an increasing risk of management error or bias and therefore increased 
risk of misstatement. 
We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to the 
existence and valuation of on-site biomass stocks.
Our audit procedures include testing the underlying weighted average cost calculation 
by agreeing key inputs such as price and volumes to source data including purchase 
invoices for amounts delivered in the year. We also sample testing the calorific value of 
biomass to third party laboratory reports or purchase invoice as appropriate.
We gained assurance of stock volumes on site during the year through management’s 
dome emptying programme. We also sample tested metering data subsequent to the 
dome emptying by agreeing to third party sources and internal operational data. We 
assessed the tolerable errors in the weighing equipment through agreement to a 
sample of third party calibration certificates.
Valuation and recoverability of ROCs
ROCs with a value of £258 million are held on the balance sheet at the year end (2015: 
£266 million). ROCs are recognised as they are earned through generating electricity 
from burning biomass. They are initially recognised at fair value (reducing the cost of 
biomass consumed in the income statement) and subsequently written down to net 
realisable values as appropriate.
Judgement is required by management in estimating both the initial fair value and 
estimating net realisable value, including value recovered through the recycling fund.
Further detail is explained in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions set out on pages 117 and 118 and in the Audit Committee report on page 77.
We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to the 
valuation of ROCs.
We gained assurance over the ROCs generated in the year by agreement to Ofgem 
confirmation certificates and operational data confirming the level of generation 
eligible for ROCs.
We have assessed the initial fair value of ROCs by agreement of the buy-out price to 
available third party supporting information and external sales agreements.
We have also challenged the estimates made by management of the recoveries 
through the recycling fund, the level of which impacts the estimated net realisable 
value of the ROCs held in the balance sheet at year end. This included comparison to 
other available third party estimates.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do 
not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of 
a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and 
in evaluating the results of our work.
When determining materiality, we considered the decline in earnings this year and at present do not consider that this decline is likely to reflect 
a long-term reduction in the size and scale of the business.
We have determined materiality by considering a range of possible benchmarks and the figures derived from those, with a particular focus on 
selecting a materiality within the range that we considered appropriate. This included underlying EBITDA (excluding unrealised gains or losses on 
derivative contracts, one-off asset obsolescence charges and losses on disposal of assets), profit before and after interest and tax as well as the 
scale of the balance sheet and the overall size of the business. We determined materiality for the Group on a blended basis to be £4.2 million 
(2015: £6.1 million).
This materiality equates to 0.2% of net assets and 17% of underlying profit before tax (excluding unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts, 
one-off asset obsolesce charges and losses on disposal of assets). Last year materiality was also based on a blended rate.
FINANCIALS
115
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.2 million (2015: £0.1 million), as 
well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. The change in the reporting threshold has 
been made following our reassessment of what matters require communicating. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters 
that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement at the group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 
three locations (2015: the same three locations), being Drax Power, Haven Power and Drax Biomass. All of these locations were subject to a full 
scope audit and they represent the principal business units and account for all of the group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax, in line with 
2015. There were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified 
above. Our audit work at three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group 
materiality and ranged from £2.1 million to £3.8 million (2015: £3.0 million to £4.8 million).
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit 
or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each 
of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year. 
During 2016 the Senior Statutory Auditor visited two of these locations, and other senior team members visited the third.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
 
– the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
 
– the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified 
any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 
– the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of 
these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from 
these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from 
our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
annual report is:
 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or
 
– otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during 
the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 
annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have 
been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified 
any such inconsistencies or misleading 
statements.
116
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality 
Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and 
applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
James Leigh, FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
15 February 2017
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
117
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Introduction
The consolidated financial statements provide detailed information 
about the financial performance (Consolidated income statement), 
financial position (Consolidated balance sheet), and cash flows 
(Consolidated cash flow statement) of Drax Group plc (the Company) 
together with all of the entities controlled by the Company (collectively, 
the Group).
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information 
on the items in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated 
balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow statement. The notes 
include explanations of the information presented. In general, the 
additional information in the notes to the financial statements is 
required by law, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or 
other regulations to facilitate increased understanding of the primary 
statements set out on pages 120 to 124.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the European Union and therefore the consolidated 
financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost 
basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that have been 
measured at fair value.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, along with future developments that 
may affect its financial performance, position and cash flows, are set 
out within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 of this document.
In the viability statement on page 54 the directors state that they 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next 
three years.
Consequently, the directors also have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months and, 
therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates
The substantial depreciation of Sterling against the US dollar and 
Euro during the second half of 2016 has had a material impact on our 
financial statements, resulting in a significant increase in the fair value 
of our forward currency purchase contracts in the balance sheet and 
income statement volatility due to realised and unrealised currency 
exchange gains and losses.
Where the impact is material, we have extended certain disclosures 
to highlight the impact of currency exchange gains and losses in 
the period. Where relevant, we have re-presented the prior year 
comparatives to provide the relevant information to gauge the impact.
Basis of consolidation
These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
results of the Company and of all entities controlled by the Company, 
(its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. The Company 
owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries.
The impact of all intra-Group transactions are eliminated on 
consolidation. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of 
during the year are included in the Consolidated income statement 
from the date the Company gains control until the date when the 
Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Accounting policies
Those accounting policies that are material to our financial statements 
are described in note 8.3 to the financial statements or, where specific 
to an individual component of the financial statements, in the relevant 
note (see contents on page 119).
We have not changed any of our accounting policies in the period; 
however we have adopted a material new policy in respect of 
accounting for the Contract for Difference (CfD) (see page 118).
A full listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements 
under IFRS applicable to these financial statements is presented in 
note 8.2. The application of these new requirements has not had a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Judgements, estimates and uncertainties
The preparation of financial statements requires management to 
exercise judgement in applying the Group’s accounting policies. It also 
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may 
differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates 
are revised and in any future periods affected.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are set 
out below and in more detail in the related notes.
Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The judgements that carry the most significant risk of an outcome that 
differs from the amount recognised in the financial statements are 
as follows:
Property, plant and equipment – property, plant and equipment 
is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life. 
Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future 
replacement cycles and other available evidence. However, a degree of 
judgement is required. Useful economic lives are reviewed annually, we 
reduced the useful lives of certain assets in our generation business 
from 1 January 2017.
MORE INFORMATION: note 3.1 on page 137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Impairment – an impairment review is conducted annually for goodwill 
and for other assets and cash-generating units where an indicator of 
possible impairment exists. The assessment of future cash flows that 
underpins such a review is based on management’s best estimate of 
future prices, volumes and economic conditions. The calculations are 
particularly sensitive to judgement given the long time period covered 
by the assessment.
MORE INFORMATION: note 2.4 on page 130
Derivatives – derivative financial instruments are recorded in the 
Group’s balance sheet at fair value. The assessment of fair value is 
derived from assuming a market price for the instrument in question. 
The Group bases its assessment of market prices upon forward curves 
that are largely derived from readily obtainable quotations and third 
party sources. However, any forward curve is based at least in part 
upon assumptions about future transactions and market movements. 
Where such instruments extend beyond the liquid portion of the 
forward curve, the level of judgement increases as the number of 
observable transactions decreases.
MORE INFORMATION: note 7.2 on page 160
Inventories – fuel inventories are valued at weighted average cost 
based on purchase price, or net realisable value where lower. Valuation 
is largely based on observable data (such as invoiced costs and 
automated weigher readings). However, given the bulk nature of fuels 
an element of judgement is required to assess the volume of stock held 
at the balance sheet date.
MORE INFORMATION: note 3.3 on page 140
Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) – the carrying amount of 
ROCs in the Group’s balance sheet is stated at their expected realisable 
value. This assessment is based on estimated future sales prices, which 
involves judgement.
MORE INFORMATION: note 3.2 on page 139
Other accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
Pensions – the Group records a liability in its balance sheet for its 
obligation to provide benefits under an approved defined benefit 
pension scheme less the fair value of assets held by the pension 
scheme. The actuarial valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities is 
performed annually and depends on assumptions regarding interest 
rates, inflation, future salary and pension increases, mortality and 
other factors.
MORE INFORMATION: note 6.3 on page 152
Taxation – in accounting for tax liabilities the Group makes 
assumptions regarding the likely treatment of items of income 
and expenditure for tax purposes. These assumptions are based 
on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, 
consultation with external advisors.
MORE INFORMATION: note 2.6 on page 132
Revenue recognition – the nature of some of the Group’s activities, 
particularly within the Retail segment, results in revenue being based 
on the estimated volumes of power supplied to customers at an 
estimated average price per unit. Assumptions that underpin these 
estimates are applied consistently and comparison of past estimates 
to final settlements suggests a high degree of accuracy. However, 
given the level of judgement involved, actual outcomes may vary 
from initial estimates.
MORE INFORMATION: note 2.2 on page 127
CfD accounting policy – the CfD is a material new contract for 
the Group and the specific accounting treatment is not prescribed 
by an existing IFRS. Accordingly, management has had to exercise 
judgement in adopting an appropriate policy in accordance with IAS 8. 
Management considered the requirements of a number of standards, 
including IAS 18 (revenue), IAS 39 (financial instruments), IAS 16 
(leases) and IAS 20 (Government Grants) in determining the policy to 
be adopted. In particular, management concluded that the contract 
did not meet the definition of a derivative financial instrument in IAS 39 
on the grounds that cash flows do not become contractually due 
until the point of generation and the Group is under no obligation to 
generate. Accordingly, amounts due under the CfD are recognised 
at the point of generation.
MORE INFORMATION: note 2.2 on page 127
Non-IFRS measures of financial performance
We present two non-IFRS measures on the face of our income 
statement: EBITDA and underlying profit.
EBITDA is the primary measure we use to assess our financial 
performance. EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on 
derivative contracts. 
Underlying measures, including underlying profit before and after 
tax and underlying earnings per share (EPS), exclude the impact of 
unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, plus particular 
transactions considered to be one-off in nature that do not reflect 
the underlying trading and operational performance of the Group. 
Underlying profit after tax and EPS exclude the post-tax effect of these 
items. In 2015, this excluded an asset obsolescence charge of £109 
million. In 2016, this excludes a deferred tax credit of £31 million in 
relation to start-up losses in our US business.
A reconciliation of profit for the year attributable to equity holders 
(calculated in accordance with IFRS) to underlying profit after tax is 
provided in note 2.7.
Under our current distribution policy, dividends are calculated based 
upon 50% of underlying profit after tax. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
119
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Section
Note
Page
Section 1:
Consolidated income statement
120
Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
121
Consolidated balance sheet
122
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
123
Consolidated cash flow statement
124
Section 2:
Financial performance
2.1
Segmental reporting
125
2.2
Revenue
127
2.3
Operating expenses and EBITDA
129
2.4
Review of fixed assets for impairment
130
2.5
Net finance costs
132
2.6
Current and deferred taxation
132
2.7
Earnings per share and underlying earnings per share
134
2.8
Dividends
135
2.9
Retained profits
136
Section 3:
Operating assets and working capital
3.1
Property, plant and equipment
137
3.2
ROC and LEC assets
139
3.3
Inventories
140
3.4
Trade and other receivables
140
3.5
Trade and other payables
141
Section 4:
Financing and capital structure
4.1
Reconciliation of net debt
142
4.2
Cash and cash equivalents
142
4.3
Borrowings
142
4.4
Cash generated from operations
144
4.5
Equity and reserves
144
Section 5:
Other assets and liabilities
5.1
Acquisitions
146
5.2
Goodwill and other intangible assets
148
5.3
Provisions
149
Section 6:
Our people
6.1
Employees and directors
150
6.2
Share-based payments
150
6.3
Retirement benefit obligations
152
Section 7:
Risk management
7.1
Financial risk management
157
7.2
Derivative financial instruments
160
7.3
Other financial instruments
163
7.4
Hedge reserve
163
7.5
Contingent liabilities
164
7.6
Commitments
164
Section 8:
Reference information
8.1
General information
165
8.2
Basis of preparation
165
8.3
Accounting policies
166
8.4
Related party transactions
166
Drax Group plc Company financial statements
167
Notes to the Company financial statements
169
CONTENTS
120
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Years ended 31 December
Notes
2016 
£m
 2015 
£m
Revenue
2.2
2,949.8
3,065.0
Fuel costs in respect of generation
(1,154.2)
(1,309.9)
Cost of power purchases
(907.8)
(851.3)
Grid charges
(379.7)
(369.5)
Other retail costs
(131.8)
(125.5)
Total cost of sales
(2,573.5)
(2,656.2)
Gross profit
376.3
408.8
Operating and administrative expenses
2.3
(236.3)
(239.8)
EBITDA(1)
2.3
140.0
169.0
Depreciation
3.1
(109.5)
(100.4)
Asset obsolescence charges
–
(109.2)
Loss on disposal
(3.8)
(7.1)
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts
7.2
176.8
123.7
Operating profit
203.5
76.0
Interest payable and similar charges
2.5
(7.0)
(18.4)
Interest receivable
2.5
0.6
1.4
Profit before tax
197.1
59.0
Tax:
– Before effect of changes in rate of corporation tax
2.6
(13.0)
(20.5)
– Effect of changes in rate of corporation tax
2.6
9.8
17.8
Total tax charge
(3.2)
(2.7)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders
193.9
56.3
Underlying profit after tax(2)
2.7
20.5
46.0
Earnings per share
pence
pence
– Basic 
2.7
48
14
– Diluted
47
14
All results relate to continuing operations.
Notes: 
(1) EBITDA is profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts. 
(2) Underlying profit after tax excludes the post-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, plus particular transactions considered to be one-off in nature that do not reflect 
the underlying trading performance of the Group. A reconciliation of profit after tax (calculated in accordance with IFRS) to underlying profit after tax is provided in note 2.7. 
SECTION 1:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FINANCIALS
121
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Years ended 31 December
Notes
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit for the year
193.9
56.3
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme
6.3
(8.4)
1.2
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme
2.6
1.6
(0.2)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
(9.1)
(2.9)
Fair value gains on cash flow hedges
7.2
330.1
23.4
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges before corporation tax rate change
2.6
(62.6)
(4.7)
Impact of corporation tax rate change on deferred tax on cash flow hedges
2.6
3.0
(0.2)
Other comprehensive income
254.6
16.6
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders
448.5
72.9
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
122
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SECTION 1: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
As at 31 December
Notes
2016 
£m
2015
 £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets
5.2
36.2
26.3
Property, plant and equipment
3.1
1,641.5
1,653.8
Deferred tax assets
2.6
33.5
–
Derivative financial instruments
7.2
486.3
278.4
2,197.5
1,958.5
Current assets
Inventories
3.3
287.5
224.0
ROC and LEC assets
3.2
257.6
270.1
Trade and other receivables
3.4
292.9
319.3
Derivative financial instruments
7.2
405.0
330.8
Cash and cash equivalents
4.2
228.4
133.8
Current tax assets
–
0.6
1,471.4
1,278.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
3.5
591.9
488.0
Current tax liabilities
6.1
–
Borrowings
4.3
35.9
0.3
Derivative financial instruments
7.2
251.0
274.3
884.9
762.6
Net current assets
586.5
516.0
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
4.3
286.0
320.1
Derivative financial instruments
7.2
112.5
300.1
Provisions
5.3
35.0
30.5
Deferred tax liabilities
2.6
275.2
191.9
Retirement benefit obligations
6.3
30.1
29.5
738.8
872.1
Net assets
2,045.2
1,602.4
Shareholders’ equity
Issued equity
4.5
47.0
46.9
Capital redemption reserve
4.5
1.5
1.5
Share premium
4.5
424.2
424.2
Merger reserve
4.5
710.8
710.8
Hedge reserve
7.4
305.4
34.9
Translation reserve
4.5
(10.2)
(1.1)
Retained profits
2.9
566.5
385.2
Total shareholders’ equity
2,045.2
1,602.4
The consolidated financial statements of Drax Group plc, registered 
number 5562053, were approved and authorised for issue by the 
Board of directors on 15 February 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors:
Dorothy Thompson CBE
Chief Executive
Will Gardiner
Chief Financial Officer
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
FINANCIALS
123
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Issued  
equity 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedge 
reserve  
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
profits 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2015
46.8
1.5
422.8
710.8
16.4
1.8
372.5
1,572.6
Profit for the year
–
–
–
–
–
–
56.3
56.3
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
–
–
–
–
18.5
(2.9)
1.0
16.6
Total comprehensive income for the year
–
–
–
–
18.5
(2.9)
57.3
72.9
Equity dividends paid (note 2.8)
–
–
–
–
–
–
(49.9)
(49.9)
Issue of share capital (note 4.5)
0.1
–
1.4
–
–
–
–
1.5
Movement in equity associated with  
share-based payments (note 6.2)
–
–
–
–
–
–
5.3
5.3
At 1 January 2016
46.9
1.5
424.2
710.8
34.9
(1.1)
385.2
1,602.4
Profit for the year
–
–
–
–
–
–
193.9
193.9
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
–
–
–
–
270.5
(9.1)
(6.8)
254.6
Total comprehensive income for the year
–
–
–
–
270.5
(9.1)
187.1
448.5
Equity dividends paid (note 2.8)
–
–
–
–
–
–
(11.0)
(11.0)
Issue of share capital (note 4.5)
0.1
–
–
–
–
–
–
0.1
Movement in equity associated with  
share-based payments (note 6.2)
–
–
–
–
–
–
5.2
5.2
At 31 December 2016
47.0
1.5
424.2
710.8
305.4
(10.2)
566.5
2,045.2
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
124
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Years ended 31 December
Notes
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash generated from operations
4.4
213.1
166.0
Income taxes paid
(1.7)
(3.8)
Other gains/(losses)
0.7
(3.7)
Interest paid
(21.7)
(11.9)
Interest received
0.4
1.5
Net cash from operating activities
190.8
148.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment
(93.2)
(179.1)
Acquisition of subsidiary
–
(4.0)
Redemption of short-term investments
–
40.1
Net cash used in investing activities
(93.2)
(143.0)
Cash flows from financing activities
Equity dividends paid
2.8
(11.0)
(49.9)
Proceeds from issue of share capital
0.1
1.5
Repayment of borrowings
–
–
Other financing costs paid
–
(5.7)
Net cash absorbed by financing activities
(10.9)
(54.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
86.7
(49.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
133.8
180.9
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates
7.9
1.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December
4.2
228.4
133.8
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
SECTION 1: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
125
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The financial performance section gives further detail on the information in the Consolidated income statement. It includes a summary of 
financial performance by business unit (2.1), analysis of certain income statement items (2.2–2.6) and information regarding underlying earnings, 
distributable profits and dividends (2.7–2.9). Further commentary regarding our trading and operational performance during the year, which is 
predominantly reflected in EBITDA, can be found in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61, with particular reference to key achievements and 
market conditions that have affected our results.
2.1 Segmental reporting
The Group is organised into three businesses, with a dedicated management team for each, and a central head office providing certain corporate 
functions. Our businesses are:
 
– Generation: the generation of electricity at Drax Power Station; 
 
– Biomass Supply: production of sustainable compressed wood pellets at our processing facilities in the US; and 
 
– Retail: the supply of power to business customers and wood pellets to the domestic heat market. 
Each business is an operating segment for the purpose of segmental reporting. Information reported to the Board for the purposes of assessing 
performance and making investment decisions is based on these three operating segments. The measure of profit or loss for each reportable 
segment presented to the Board on a regular basis is EBITDA (as defined on page 118).
Operating costs are allocated to segments to the extent they are directly attributable to the activities of that segment. Head office costs are 
included within central operating costs.
Segment revenues and results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues and results by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2016:
Year ended 31 December 2016
Generation 
£m
Retail
 £m
Biomass 
Supply 
£m
Adjustments(1)
£m
Consolidated 
£m
Revenue
External sales
1,622.7
1,326.4
0.7
–
2,949.8
Inter-segment sales
868.2
–
72.9
(941.1)
–
Total revenue
2,490.9
1,326.4
73.6
(941.1)
2,949.8
Segment gross profit
337.0
23.5
18.1
(2.3)
376.3
Segment EBITDA
173.8
(4.3)
(6.3)
(2.3)
160.9
Central costs 
(20.9)
Consolidated EBITDA
140.0
Depreciation and amortisation
(109.5)
Losses on disposal
(3.8)
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts
176.8
Operating profit
203.5
Net finance costs
(6.4)
Profit before tax
197.1
Notes:
(1) Adjustments represent the elimination of intra-group transactions.
SECTION 2: 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
126
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
2.1 Segmental reporting continued
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues and results by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2015:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Generation 
£m
Retail
 £m
Biomass 
Supply 
£m
Adjustments(1)
£m
Consolidated 
£m
Revenue
External sales
1,775.0
1,290.0
–
–
3,065.0
Inter-segment sales
863.2
–
28.4
(891.6)
–
Total revenue
2,638.2
1,290.0
28.4
(891.6)
3,065.0
Segment gross profit
390.1
19.3
1.0
(1.6)
408.8
Segment EBITDA
214.6
(6.3)
(14.8)
193.5
Central costs
(24.5)
Consolidated EBITDA
169.0
Depreciation and amortisation
(100.4)
Losses on disposal
(7.1)
Asset obsolescence charges(2)
(109.2)
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts
123.7
Operating profit
76.0
Net finance costs
(17.0)
Profit before tax
59.0
Notes:
(1) Adjustments represent the elimination of intra-group transactions.
(2) £102.6 million of the asset obsolescence charges arose in the Generation segment, with the remaining £6.6 in the Biomass Supply segment.
Assets and working capital are monitored on a consolidated basis, with no separate reporting by segment in the Group’s management 
accounts. However, spend on key capital projects is monitored. Total spend on the biomass transformation project during 2016 was £29 million 
(2015: £90 million), of which £7 million (2015: £22 million) relates to construction of assets, in the US, within the Biomass Supply segment.
The accounting policies applied for the purpose of measuring the segments’ profits or losses, assets and liabilities are the same as those used in 
measuring the corresponding amounts in the Group’s financial statements. The external revenues and results of all of our reporting segments are 
subject to seasonality with higher despatch and prices in the winter months, compared to summer months.
Intra-group trading
Intra-group transactions are carried out on arm’s-length, commercial terms that where possible equate to market prices at the time of the 
transaction. During 2016, the Biomass Supply segment sold wood pellets with a total value of £72.9 million (2015: £28.4 million) to the Generation 
segment and the Generation segment sold power, ROCs and LECs with a total value of £868.2 million (2015: £863.2 million) to the Retail segment.
The impact of all intra-group transactions, including any unrealised profit arising (£2.3 million at 31 December 2016), is eliminated on consolidation.
Major customers
Total revenue for the year ended 31 December 2016 includes amounts of £541.5 million and £399.3 million (2015: £597.7 million and £468.0 million) 
derived from two customers (2015: two customers), each representing 10% or more of the Group’s consolidated revenue for the year. These 
revenues arose in the Generation segment.
FINANCIALS
127
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
2.2 Revenue
Accounting Policy
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other 
sales-related taxes and excluding transactions with or between Group companies.
Revenues from the sale of electricity from our generating assets in Drax Power are measured based upon metered output delivered at rates 
specified under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable.
Two of our biomass-fuelled generating units earn Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) under the UK Government’s Renewables Obligation 
(RO) regime. The financial benefit of a ROC is recognised in the income statement at the point the relevant renewable biomass fuel is burnt and 
power dispatched as a reduction in the cost of the biomass fuel. A corresponding asset is recognised on the balance sheet (see note 3.2 on 
page 139). Revenue from sale of ROCs is recognised when the ROC is transferred to the account of a third party.
Revenue from the sale of electricity directly to business customers through our power retail business, Haven Power, is recognised on the supply 
of electricity when a contract exists, supply has taken place, a quantifiable price has been established or can be determined and the receivables 
are expected to be recovered at the point of sale. Energy supplied is measured based upon metered consumption and contractual rates; however 
where a supply has taken place but is not yet measured or billed, the revenue calculation is estimated based on consumption statistics and selling 
price estimates.
Revenues from the sale of wood pellets through our UK domestic pellet retail business, Billington Bioenergy are recognised at the point the 
pellets are delivered to the location specified in the contract, which is normally the customer’s premises.
Other revenues derived from the provision of services (for example, the supply of ancillary generation services, such as black start and frequency 
response, to National Grid) are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract. Most such contracts are for the delivery of 
a service either continually or on an ad-hoc basis over a period of time and thus stage of completion is calculated with reference to the amount 
of the contract term that has elapsed. Depending on the contract terms this approach may require judgement in enhancing probable 
future outcomes.
Other revenues derived from the sale of goods (for example, by-products from electricity generation such as ash and gypsum) are recognised 
at the point the risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer, typically at the point of delivery to the customer’s premises.
CfD payments
The Group is party to a Contract for Difference (CfD) with The Low Carbon Contracts Company (LCCC), a Government-owned entity responsible 
for delivering elements of the Government’s Electricity Market Reform Programme. Under the contract, the Group makes or receives payments in 
respect of electricity dispatched from one of its three biomass-fuelled generating units. The payment is calculated with reference to a strike price 
of £100 per MWh. The strike price is in 2012 terms and increases each year indexed to UK CPI and system balancing costs. The strike price at 
31 December 2016 was £106 per MWh.
Where market prices at the point of generation are above/below the strike price, the Group makes/receives an additional payment to/from  
LCCC equivalent to the difference between the market power price at the point of dispatch and the strike price. Such payments are in addition to 
amounts received from the sale of the power in the wholesale market and either increase or limit the total income from the power dispatched 
from the relevant generating unit to the strike price in the CfD contract.
The Group recognises the income or costs arising from the CfD in the income statement, as a component of revenue, at the point the flow of 
economic benefit becomes probable. This is considered to be the point at which the relevant generation is delivered and the payment becomes 
contractually due.
The Group began generating under the CfD contract on 21 December 2016 and, in accordance with this policy, accrued £10.3 million of revenue 
in respect of amounts due from the LCCC in the period ending 31 December 2016.
128
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
2.2 Revenue continued
ROC sales
The generation and sale of ROCs is a key driver of the Group’s financial performance. The RO scheme started in April 2002 and places an 
obligation on electricity suppliers to source an increasing proportion of their electricity from renewable sources. Under the RO, ROCs are 
certificates issued to generators of renewable electricity which are then sold to suppliers to demonstrate they have fulfilled their obligations 
under the RO. ROCs are managed in compliance periods (CPs), running from April to March annually, CP1 commenced in April 2002. 
At 31 December 2016 we are in CP15.
To meet its obligations a supplier can either submit ROCs or pay the “buy-out” price at the end of the CP. The buy-out price was set at £30/ROC in 
CP1 and rises with inflation. ROCs are typically procured in arm’s-length transactions with renewable generators at a market price typically slightly 
lower than the buy-out price for that CP. At the end of the CP, the amounts collected from suppliers paying the buy-out price form the “recycle 
fund”, which is distributed on a pro-rata basis to ROC generators. 
The financial benefit of a ROC recognised in the income statement at the point of generation is thus comprised of two parts: the expected value 
to be obtained in a sale transaction with a third party supplier and the expected recycle fund benefit to be received at the end of the CP. See note 
3.2 on page 139 for further details of ROCs generated and sold by our Generation business and those utilised by our Retail business in the year.
Further analysis of our revenue for the year ending 31 December 2016 is provided in the table below:
Year ended 31 December 2016
External 
£m
Intra-group 
£m
Total 
£m
Generation
Power sales
1,193.4
686.5
1,879.9
ROC and LEC sales
366.7
181.7
548.4
CfD income
10.3
–
10.3
Ancillary services
47.3
–
47.3
Other income
5.0
_
5.0
Retail
Power sales
1,319.6
–
1,319.6
Pellet sales
6.7
–
6.7
Other income
0.1
–
0.1
Biomass Supply
Pellet sales
–
72.9
72.9
Other income
0.7
–
0.7
Elimination of intra-group sales
–
(941.1)
(941.1)
Total consolidated revenue
2,949.8
–
2,949.8
The Group’s principal revenues arise from the sale of power, both into the wholesale market via Drax Power, our generation business, and to 
Industrial and Commercial and small and medium-sized enterprise business customers via Haven Power, our energy retail business. The Group 
also sells wood pellets into the domestic UK heat market via Billington Bioenergy, part of our retail business. Drax Biomass, our US-based wood 
pellet manufacturing business, generates all of its revenues intra-group, selling sustainable wood pellets to Drax Power to be used in the 
electricity generation process.
ROC sales and CfD income reflect revenues received through Government programmes to support renewable generation. ROC sales reflect 
consideration received for sales of ROCs by Drax Power to third parties. CfD income reflects amounts received under the CfD contract awarded 
by the UK Government to one of our biomass-fuelled electricity generation units. See CfD payments above for further details.
FINANCIALS
129
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
2.2 Revenue continued
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues in the year ended 31 December 2015:
Year ended 31 December 2015
External 
£m
Internal 
£m
Total 
£m
Generation
Power sales
1,461.2
702.2
2,163.4
ROC and LEC sales
290.8
161.0
451.8
CfD income
–
–
–
Ancillary services
14.0
–
14.0
Other income
9.0
–
9.0
Retail
Power sales
1,284.9
–
1,284.9
Pellet sales
4.6
–
4.6
Other income
0.5
–
0.5
Biomass Supply
Pellet sales
–
28.1
28.1
Other income
–
0.3
0.3
Elimination of intra-group sales
–
(891.6)
(891.6)
Total consolidated revenue
3,065.0
–
3,065.0
2.3 Operating expenses and EBITDA
This note sets out the material components of “Operating and administrative expenses” in our Consolidated income statement, page 120,  
and a detailed breakdown of the fees we paid to our auditor, Deloitte LLP, in respect of services they provided to us during the year.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Gross profit
376.3
408.8
The following expenditure has been charged in arriving at operating profit/EBITDA:
Staff costs (note 6.1)
99.9
106.8
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment
68.9
59.6
Other operating and administrative expenses
67.5
73.4
Total operating and administrative expenses
236.3
239.8
EBITDA
140.0
169.0
EBITDA is profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts. 
 
130
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
2.3 Operating expenses and EBITDA continued
Auditor’s remuneration
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Audit fees:
Fees payable for the audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements
448
361
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries
27
74
475
435
Other fees:
Review of the Group’s half-year condensed consolidated financial statements
71
70
Other services
2
2
Total audit related fees
548
507
Taxation services
–
7
Other assurance services
610
36
Total non-audit fees
610
43
Total auditor’s remuneration
1,158
550
Other assurance services provided by Deloitte LLP in 2016 consist largely of reporting accountant services associated with the shareholder 
circular in relation to the Opus transaction, published on 18 January 2017. Non-audit services are approved by the Audit Committee in accordance 
with the policy set out on page 81.
2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment
Accounting policy
The Group reviews its fixed assets (or, where appropriate, groups of assets known as cash-generating units (CGUs)) whenever there is an 
indication that an impairment loss may have been suffered. The Group considers the smallest collections of assets that generate independent 
cash flows to be its operating entities (Drax Power, Haven Power, Drax Biomass and Billington Bioenergy) and accordingly considers the Group to 
be comprised of four CGUs.
If an indication of potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU in question is assessed with reference to the present 
value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of the asset or CGU (value in use) or the expected price that would 
be received to sell the asset to another market participant (fair value). The initial assessment of recoverable amount is normally based on value 
in use.
Where value in use is calculated, the assessment of future cash flows includes all of the necessary costs expected to be incurred to generate 
the cash inflows from the CGU’s assets in their current state and condition, including an allocation of centrally managed costs. Central costs 
are only allocated where they are necessary for and directly attributable to the CGU’s activities. Future cash flows include, where relevant, 
contracted cash flows arising from our cash flow hedging activities and as a result, the carrying amount of each CGU includes the mark-to-
market value of those cash flow hedges.
The additional value that could be obtained from enhancing or converting the Group’s assets is not reflected, nor the potential benefit of any 
future restructuring or reorganisation. In determining value in use, the estimate of future cash flows is discounted to present value using 
a pre-tax rate.
If the recoverable amount is less than the current carrying amount in the financial statements, a provision is made to reduce the carrying amount 
of the asset or CGU to the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill balances are assessed for impairment annually (see note 5.2). 
Critical judgement areas
In 2015, the market capitalisation of the Group fell materially below the carrying value of the Group’s net assets. Whilst the shortfall has reduced 
considerably during 2016, this remains the case at the balance sheet date. In addition, commodity markets are weak and the substantial 
weakening of Sterling against both the Euro and US dollar in the second half of 2016 indicated a potentially material increase in the long-term 
costs of fuel for our generation business, which are predominantly priced in these currencies. Accordingly an impairment review of the Drax 
Power CGU was undertaken at the balance sheet date. A review of other CGUs suggested no indicators of impairment.
FINANCIALS
131
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment continued
The assessment of the present value of future cash flows on which such a review is based is dependent upon a number of assumptions. 
In particular, expected future cash flows are based upon management’s estimates of future prices, output, costs and economic support for 
renewable energy generation, including access to Capacity Market and Ancillary Services contracts. Where relevant and to the fullest extent 
possible, the key assumptions are based on observable market information. However, observable market information is only available for a 
limited proportion of the remaining useful lives of the assets under review,
The most critical of these assumptions are discussed below.
Impairment review
The carrying amount of the Drax Power CGU at 31 December 2016 was £1,911 million. The value in use of the Drax Power CGU was tested using 
the Group’s established planning model.
The analysis assumed that Drax Power’s three biomass-fuelled generating units would continue in operation until the end of their estimated 
useful lives, currently considered to be 2039. In line with our assumption that coal-fired generation will cease by 2025, applied in light of the 
Government consultation published in November 2016, the three remaining coal-fired units were assumed to cease coal-fired generation by 
this date but will then be available for conversion to biomass-fired units. No account has been taken of any cash inflows that could result from 
such a conversion (which could take place earlier than 2025) in measuring the value in use of the Drax Power CGU. 
The analysis depends on a broad range of assumptions, including the expected life of the six power generating units and the regulatory regime 
under which they might operate. The key assumptions (i.e. those most sensitive to a change, possibly resulting in a different outcome for 
impairment) are considered to be:
 
– The expected operating lives of the six generating units, as described above;
 
– Future commodity prices beyond the horizon of our existing contracted purchase and sale commitments – notably power prices and 
biomass prices;
 
– Future foreign exchange rates beyond the horizon of our existing contracted purchase commitments; and
 
– The continuance of existing biomass support regimes – CfD and RO – until 2027 and the existence of a favourable economic environment 
for biomass generation thereafter. This includes future Capacity Markets and Ancillary Services revenues.
These assumptions are all dependent on external market movements. The historic volatility in these assumptions is reflected in the financial 
performance of the Group but past performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future values.
Where available, estimates of future prices are based on signed contracts for purchases and sales with third parties. Transactions beyond 
contracted positions are valued using market data and forward price curves, based where possible on data points provided by a reputable third 
party source, independent to the Group. In particular, longer-term power prices are based on Department for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy and National Grid assumptions. The contracted period for biomass purchases is substantially longer, with the longest-dated contracts 
expiring in 2027. Beyond this point, estimated biomass prices are largely based on our internal models and expectations for the biomass market.
Future foreign exchange rates are based on contracted foreign currency purchases to the extent possible. Beyond our contracted position, 
exchange rate estimates are based on market forward curves and, beyond this point, Bloomberg data.
Current Government plans for existing renewable support mechanisms, namely the CfD and RO, assume these cease in 2027. The impairment 
analysis made no assumptions regarding the direct replacement of these support mechanisms beyond this date. The biomass-fuelled units 
that are assumed to continue to generate power do so supported by the prevailing wholesale power price, delivery of ancillary services to the UK 
grid and an expectation that capacity market revenues would be available to these units. Our power price forecasts reflect increased volatility 
between peak and baseload prices. Assumed revenues from ancillary services and the capacity market are based on projections derived from 
current contracts and capacity market outcomes and how we expect the market to evolve. These assumptions reflect our expectation that Drax 
will be required to provide generation to support intermittent renewable power and be an essential part of the UK’s energy mix throughout the 
life of the units.
The expected future cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax nominal rate of 8.4%. The discount rate is supported by observable market 
reports and independent analysis commissioned by, and specific to the circumstances of the Group. This indicated that the recoverable amount 
of the Drax Power CGU exceeded its carrying value with headroom of approximately £200 million and therefore that no provisions for impairment 
were required.
Sensitivity analysis indicated that, when compared to our base case assumptions, a reduction of approximately 7% in market power prices, 
an increase in biomass prices of approximately 11%, or a depreciation of Sterling against the US dollar of some 8% throughout the 23-year term 
of the valuation would result in a recoverable amount for the Drax Power CGU that is lower than its carrying amount. This does not consider 
the interaction effect of potential changes in several or all of the assumptions simultaneously, and the sensitivities do not take account of any 
mitigating actions that could be taken should the changes referred to materialise. In addition, in relation to central costs, no reasonable change 
in the method of allocation would result in an impairment charge.
132
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
2.5 Net finance costs
Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing our debt structure (such as interest payable on our bank loans) as well as foreign exchange 
gains and losses, the unwinding of discounting on provisions for reinstatement of our sites at the end of their useful lives (see note 5.3) and net 
interest charged on the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme obligation (see note 6.3). These are offset by interest income that we generate 
through efficient use of short-term cash surpluses – for example through investment in money market funds.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Interest payable and similar charges:
Interest payable on bank borrowings
(19.4)
(18.0)
Unwinding of discount on provisions (note 5.3)
(4.5)
(0.7)
Amortisation of deferred finance costs
(2.1)
(3.7)
Net finance cost in respect of defined benefit scheme (note 6.3)
(0.9)
(1.1)
Other financing charges
(2.1)
(0.8)
Total interest payable and similar charges
(29.0)
(24.3)
Interest receivable:
Interest income on bank deposits
0.6
1.4
Total interest receivable
0.6
1.4
Foreign exchange gains
22.0
5.9
Net interest charge
(6.4)
(17.0)
Foreign exchange gains and losses recognised in interest arise on the retranslation of balances and investments denominated in foreign 
currencies to prevailing rates at the balance sheet date. Sterling weakened against the US dollar and Euro following the EU referendum in June, 
resulting in gains being recognised on assets the Group holds denominated in these currencies.
Amortisation of deferred finance costs for the previous period include £0.7 million relating to the previous revolving credit facility for which 
amortisation was accelerated following the successful renegotiation of a replacement facility in December 2015.
2.6 Current and deferred taxation
The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax. Current tax is the estimated amount of tax payable on this year’s taxable profits 
(which are adjusted for items upon which we are not required to pay tax or, in some cases, for items which are not allowable for tax purposes 
and therefore on which we are required to pay additional tax). Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is 
expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules (reflected in differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits). The tax charge reflects 
the estimated effective tax rate on profit before tax for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the movement in the deferred tax 
balance in the year, so far as it relates to items recognised in the income statement.
Accounting policy
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is based on the taxable profit or loss for the year in the relevant jurisdiction. Taxable 
profit or loss differs from profit/loss before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expenditure that 
are either taxable or deductible in other years or never taxable/deductible. The Group’s liability (or asset) for current tax is provided at amounts 
expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on 
jurisdictional tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. In the UK 2016 Budget, the UK 
Government proposed a reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 18% to 17% from 1 April 2020. This change was enacted into law 
in September 2016 and accordingly these rates have been reflected in the UK deferred tax balance at 31 December 2016. 
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income  
or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
FINANCIALS
133
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
2.6 Current and deferred taxation continued
Significant judgement areas
In accounting for taxation the Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes.  
The Group believes that these assumptions are reasonable based on prior experience and consultation with advisers. Full provision is made for 
deferred taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets 
are recognised where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered. Where such assets relate to losses incurred by a business 
unit, particularly one with a history of losses, the Group seeks evidence other than its own internal forecasts to support recognition of the related 
deferred tax asset.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Tax charge comprises:
Current tax
8.5
1.8
Deferred tax
– Before impact of corporation tax rate change
4.5
18.7
– Impact of corporation tax rate change
(9.8)
(17.8)
Tax charge
3.2
2.7
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Tax charged on items recognised in other comprehensive income:
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 6.3)
(1.6)
0.2
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges (note 7.4)
59.6
4.9
58.0
5.1
UK corporation tax is the main rate of tax for the Group and is calculated at 20% (2015: 20.25%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.  
Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the 
profit per the income statement as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit before tax
197.1
59.0
Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% (2015: 20.25%)
39.4
11.9
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of prior periods
(3.6)
1.5
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
1.7
0.9
Impact of change to corporation tax rate
(9.8)
(17.8)
Difference in overseas tax rates and other benefits
(4.8)
–
Deferred tax on prior year start up losses and other temporary differences
(21.4)
–
Other
1.7
6.2
Total tax charge
3.2
2.7
The Adjustments in respect of prior periods principally relates to a research and development claim which was successfully concluded with 
HMRC during the period. In 2015 Other items included the US losses which were not recognised for deferred tax purposes in that year.
134
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
2.6 Current and deferred taxation continued
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during each year are shown below. 
Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets
Financial 
instruments 
£m
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m
Non-trade 
losses 
£m
Trade
 losses
£m
Other 
liabilities 
£m
Other 
assets 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2015
22.5
(198.4)
7.6
–
(26.6)
9.0
(185.9)
Credited/(charged) to the income statement
(24.9)
35.9
(6.1)
–
(4.3)
(1.5)
(0.9)
Charged to equity in respect of actuarial gains
–
–
–
–
–
(0.2)
(0.2)
Charged to equity in respect of cash flow hedges
(4.9)
–
–
–
–
–
(4.9)
At 1 January 2016
(7.3)
(162.5)
1.5
–
(30.9)
7.3
(191.9)
(Charged)/credited to the income statement
(33.9)
(7.1)
(1.5)
35.3
5.3
7.2
5.3
Charged to equity in respect of actuarial gains
–
–
–
–
–
1.6
1.6
Charged to equity in respect of cash flow hedges
(59.6)
–
–
–
–
–
(59.6)
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates
–
(1.3)
–
3.5
–
0.7
2.9
At 31 December 2016
(100.8)
(170.9)
–
38.8
(25.6)
16.8
(241.7)
Deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
Net deferred tax asset
–
(14.4)
–
38.8
–
9.1
33.5
Net deferred tax liability
(100.8)
(156.5)
–
–
(25.6)
7.7
(275.2)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so, otherwise are shown separately in the 
balance sheet.
In the period the Group recognised a net deferred tax asset valued at £34 million in respect of start-up losses and other temporary differences  
in the US-based Drax Biomass business (£21 million of this asset relates to losses that arose in previous years). Recognition in 2016 reflects an 
improvement in operational performance and the Board’s increased confidence regarding the delivery of future taxable profits against which the 
losses will be utilised currently expected by 2027. As a one-off and non-cash item, this credit has been excluded from the calculation of underlying 
earnings and the dividend for 2016 (see notes 2.7 and 2.8). These start-up losses are valued at the US Federal tax rate as was enacted at the 
balance sheet date (35%). Should Federal tax rates reduce/increase in the future, this will correspondingly reduce/increase (respectively)  
this net deferred tax asset.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets with an estimated value of £2 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: £2 million), in respect of UK 
losses totalling £12 million, that are carried forward against future taxable income. The business unit involved has a history of making losses and 
until sufficient operational performance is established and maintained to give suitable confidence in future profitability, taxable income against 
which to utilise the benefit of the accumulated losses is not considered to be probable.
2.7 Earnings per share and underlying earnings per share
Earnings per share (EPS) represents the amount of our earnings (post-tax profits) that is attributable to each ordinary share we have in issue. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing our earnings (profit after tax calculated in accordance with IFRS) by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares that were in issue during the year. Diluted EPS demonstrates the impact if all outstanding share options (such as those to be issued under 
our employee share schemes – see note 6.2), that are expected to vest on their future maturity dates, were exercised and treated as ordinary 
shares as at the balance sheet date.
In addition to EPS, we calculate underlying EPS as it reflects the figures upon which our annual dividends are calculated (note 2.8). Underlying 
EPS removes the post-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, plus particular transactions considered to be one-off in 
nature that do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group, from post-tax profits. Multiplying underlying basic EPS by 50% will 
give the total dividends per share for the period.
FINANCIALS
135
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
2.7 Earnings per share and underlying earnings per share continued
The table below reconciles earnings, calculated in accordance with IFRS, to underlying profit after tax:
Years ended 31 December
2016
 £m
2015 
£m
Earnings:
Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings
193.9
56.3
Adjusted for:
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts
(176.8)
(123.7)
Asset obsolescence charges
–
109.2
Tax impact of the above items
33.9
4.2
Deferred tax on start-up losses and other temporary differences
(30.5)
–
Underlying profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company
20.5
46.0
The effect of potentially dilutive options on the weighted average number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date is shown below:
Years ended 31 December
2016
2015
Number of shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (millions)
406.6
406.0
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares under share plans
2.7
1.3
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (millions)
409.3
407.3
Earnings per share – basic (pence)
48
14
Earnings per share – diluted (pence)
47
14
Underlying earnings per share – basic (pence)
5
11
Underlying earnings per share – diluted (pence)
5
11
2.8 Dividends
Dividends are amounts we return to our shareholders and are paid as an amount per ordinary share held. Our current dividend policy is to return 
50% of underlying profit after tax (see note 2.7) to our shareholders each year. The remaining 50% is retained for reinvestment in the business.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015
 £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares  
in issue at the record date):
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.1 pence per share paid on 7 October 2016  
(2015: 5.1 pence per share paid on 9 October 2015)
8.6
20.7
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 0.6 pence per share paid on 13 May 2016  
(2015: 7.2 pence per share paid on 15 May 2015)
2.4
29.2
11.0
49.9
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 0.4 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £1.8 million) payable on or before 12 May 2017. 
The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2016.
136
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
2.9 Retained profits
Retained profits are a component of our equity reserves. The overall balance reflects the total profits we have generated over our lifetime, 
reduced by the amount of that profit we have distributed to our shareholders. The table below sets out the movements in our retained profits 
during the year.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January
385.2
372.5
Profit for the year
193.9
56.3
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 6.3)
(8.4)
1.2
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 2.6)
1.6
(0.2)
Equity dividends paid (note 2.8)
(11.0)
(49.9)
Net movements in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2)
5.2
5.3
At 31 December
566.5
385.2
Distributable profits
The capacity of the Group to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the availability of retained distributable profits and cash resources.
The immediate cash resources of the Group of £228.4 million are set out in note 4.2 and the recent history of cash generation within note 4.4. 
The majority of these cash resources are held by the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group, in particular Drax Power Limited.
The Parent Company financial statements, set out on pages 167 to 172 of this report, disclose the Parent Company’s distributable reserves of £229 
million. The Group has, relative to previous dividend payments (note 2.8), sufficient retained profits, which are accessible by the Parent Company, 
for future distributions in accordance with the Group’s dividend policy.
SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
137
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
This section gives further information on the operating assets we use to generate revenue and the short-term liquid assets and liabilities, 
managed during day-to-day operations, that comprise our working capital balances.
3.1 Property, plant and equipment
This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by us that we use in our businesses to generate 
revenue. The cost of an asset is what we paid to purchase or construct the asset. Depreciation reflects the usage of the asset over time and is 
calculated by taking the cost of the asset, net of any residual value, to the income statement evenly over the useful economic life of the asset. 
An asset’s net book value is its cost less any depreciation (including impairment, if required) charged to date.
Additions in 2016 include a further £29 million (2015: £90 million) on our biomass transformation project, which is now largely complete and in line 
with initial expectations on timing and overall cost. At Drax Power Station we now have three fully converted units running on biomass fuel, the 
third of which completed its conversion following the award of the CfD in December 2016. Upstream, in our US-based wood pellet manufacturing 
business, both pellet plant facilities and the port facility ran commercial operations for the first full year.
Accounting policy
Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price (after deducting trade discounts and rebates), 
any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management, and the estimate of the present value of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site. 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
We construct many of our assets as part of long-term development projects. Assets that are in the course of construction are not depreciated 
until they are ready for us to use in the way intended.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write down assets to their residual value evenly over the estimated useful lives (UEL) of the 
assets from the date of acquisition (where relevant, limited to the expected decommissioning date of the power station – currently expected to 
be 2039). The table below shows the range of useful lives at the date of acquisition and the average remaining useful life at the balance sheet 
date of the main categories of asset we own in years:
Average UEL 
remaining
Range of 
UELs 
Freehold buildings
23
8–32
Plant and equipment
Electricity generation plant
19
3–32
Biomass specific assets
21
4–26
Coal specific assets
23
3–32
Pellet production plant
19
5–20
Other plant, machinery and equipment
15
2–30
Decommissioning asset
23
35
Plant spare parts
23
Up to 35
Freehold land, held at cost, is considered to have an unlimited useful life and is not depreciated.
Electricity generation plant refers to core electricity generation assets at Drax Power Station which are fuel agnostic. Biomass-specific and 
coal-specific assets are those assets that are only necessary to support electricity generation from the specified fuel and include fuel storage 
and distribution systems.
Within the plant and equipment categories shorter lives are attributed to components that are overhauled and upgraded as part of rolling outage 
cycles. The majority of assets within these categories have a remaining useful life in excess of 15 years.
Plant spare parts are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the power station.
Costs relating to major inspections, overhauls and upgrades to the power station are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate, if the recognition criteria are met; namely, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the 
item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually, taking into account regulatory change and commercial and technological 
obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear. Residual values are based on prices prevailing at each balance sheet date. Any changes are  
applied prospectively.
SECTION 3:
OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL
138
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued
Critical judgement areas
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment where there has been a trigger event (that is, an event which 
may have resulted in impairment) by assessing the present value of estimated future cash flows and net realisable value compared with net book 
value. The calculation of estimated future cash flows and residual values is based on management’s reasonable estimates of future prices, output 
and costs, and is therefore subjective. Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future replacement cycles and other available 
evidence; however an inherent degree of judgement remains.
Asset lives are reviewed annually at each balance sheet date. As part of the most recent annual review of asset lives, the estimated useful life of 
coal-specific assets at Drax Power Station will be revised with effect from 1 January 2017. On 9 November 2016 the Government announced a 
consultation on the future closure of unabated coal-fired generation. Having considered this event, management concluded that coal generation 
will cease during 2025, but that the three coal units will be retained for conversion to biomass-fuelled generation in the period to 2039. This 
results in the shortening to 2025 of the useful lives of the coal-specific assets which will not be required to support generation after this date.  
This change is applied prospectively, from the point of management’s decision, and will result in an increase of approximately £27 million per 
annum in depreciation charges from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2025.
The useful lives of electricity generation plant currently fuelled by coal are unaffected by this change. These assets can be utilised using 
alternative fuel sources without material modification.
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that these assets 
may be impaired. Accounting policies in respect of impairment, along with details of the impairment review conducted during 2016, are set out  
in note 2.4.
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Plant  
spare parts 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost:
At 1 January 2015
248.8
2,059.8
55.8
2,364.4
Additions at cost
90.7
69.4
13.7
173.8
Disposals
(11.9)
(38.5)
–
(50.4)
Issues/transfers
(9.5)
20.6
(11.0)
0.1
At 1 January 2016
318.1
2,111.3
58.5
2,487.9
On acquisition (note 5.1)
1.3
0.2
–
1.5
Additions at cost
0.8
84.3
10.6
95.7
Disposals
(7.2)
(28.1)
–
(35.3)
Issues/transfers
(11.9)
19.0
(4.5)
2.6
Effect of foreign currency exchange differences
0.7
1.1
–
1.8
At 31 December 2016
301.8
2,187.8
64.6
2,554.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:
At 1 January 2015
57.9
594.3
15.0
667.2
Obsolescence charges
0.1
109.1
–
109.2
Depreciation charge for the year
8.1
90.8
1.5
100.4
Disposals
(11.7)
(31.4)
0.4
(42.7)
At 1 January 2016
54.4
762.8
16.9
834.1
Depreciation charge for the year
11.2
96.7
1.6
109.5
Disposals
(6.5)
(25.0)
–
(31.5)
Effect of foreign currency exchange differences
0.2
0.4
–
0.6
At 31 December 2016
59.3
834.9
18.5
912.7
Net book amount at 31 December 2015
263.7
1,348.5
41.6
1,653.8
Net book amount at 31 December 2016
242.5
1,352.9
46.1
1,641.5
Assets in the course of construction amounted to £120.5 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: £217.0 million). Additions to assets in the course of 
construction were £88.6 million in 2016.
SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
139
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant and equipment includes assets held under finance lease agreements with a carrying value at 31 December 2016 of £1.6 million (2015: £1.6 million).
Additions during the year include £nil (2015: £1.9 million) of capitalised borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of specific assets.
3.2 ROC and LEC assets
We earn ROC assets, which are accredited by the Office for Gas and Electricity Markets (“Ofgem”), as a result of burning sustainable compressed 
wood pellets to generate electricity. This note sets out the value of these assets that we have earned but not yet sold.
As we generate more of our electricity by burning sustainable compressed wood pellets, the volume and therefore the total value of ROC assets 
we have generated has increased. With the approval of the CfD in December 2016, total ROC generation is expected to reduce in 2017. Haven 
Power provides us with a credit-efficient and timely route to market for these ROCs, as do the ROC monetisation facilities described in note 7.1.
Following the Government’s decision to remove the Climate Change Levy exemption for power generated from renewable sources, as of  
1 August 2015 we no longer earn LECs for electricity generated from sustainable compressed wood pellets. 
Accounting policy
ROCs are recognised as current assets in the period they are generated and are initially measured at fair value based on anticipated sales prices. 
The value of ROCs earned is recognised in the income statement as a reduction in fuel costs in that period.
Where our retail activities incur an obligation to deliver ROCs to Ofgem, that obligation is provided for in the period incurred.
At each reporting date the Group reviews the fair value of ROC assets generated but not sold against updated anticipated sales prices including, 
where relevant, agreed forward sale contracts and taking into account likely utilisation of ROCs generated to settle our own ROC obligations.  
Any impairments required are recognised in the income statement in the period incurred.
Critical judgement areas
The fair values and net realisable values of ROCs referred to above are calculated with reference to assumptions regarding future sales prices in 
the market, taking into account agreed forward sale contracts where appropriate. Historic experience indicates that the assumptions used in the 
valuation are reasonable; however actual sales prices may differ from those assumed.
ROC valuations also include an estimate of the future benefit that may be obtained from the ROC recycle fund at the end of the compliance 
period. The recycle fund provides a benefit where Supplier buy-out charges (incurred by Suppliers who do not procure sufficient ROCs to satisfy 
their obligations) are returned to renewable generators on a pro-rata basis. The estimate is based on assumptions about likely levels of renewable 
generation and supply over the compliance period and is thus subject to some uncertainty. The Group utilises external sources of information in 
addition to its own forecasts in calculating these estimates. Past experience indicates that the values arrived at are reasonable but they remain 
subject to possible variation.
ROCs 
£m
LECs 
£m
Total 
£m
Fair value and carrying amount:
At 1 January 2015
173.8
10.7
184.5
Earned from generation
482.1
34.0
516.1
Purchased from third parties
16.4
3.8
20.2
Utilised by our retail business/sold to third parties
(406.6)
(44.1)
(450.7)
At 1 January 2016
265.7
4.4
270.1
Earned from generation
535.8
–
535.8
Utilised by our retail business/sold to third parties
(543.9)
(4.4)
(548.3)
At 31 December 2016
257.6
–
257.6
Recognition of revenue from sales of ROCs and LECs is described in further detail on page 128.
140
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
3.3 Inventories
We hold stocks of fuels and other consumable items that we use in the process of generating electricity, and raw materials used in the production 
of compressed wood pellets. This note shows the cost of coal, biomass, other fuels and plant consumables that we held at the end of the year, 
including items at Drax Power Station, our facilities in the US and those owned by us but stored in off-site locations.
Accounting policy
Our raw materials and fuel stocks are valued at the lower of the weighted average cost to purchase and net realisable value.
The cost of fuel stocks includes all direct costs and overheads incurred in bringing the fuel to its present location and condition, including the 
purchase price, import duties and other taxes (including amounts levied on coal under the UK carbon price support mechanism) and transport/
handling costs.
Critical judgement areas
Whilst value is largely based on observable costs, given the storage and handling characteristics of coal and biomass, an element of judgement is 
inherent in calculating the volume of fuel stocks owned by the Group at any given time.
Both coal and biomass stocks are weighed when entering, moving around or exiting sites using technology regularly calibrated to industry 
standards. Fuel burn in the electricity generation process is calculated using a combination of weights and thermal efficiency calculations to 
provide closing stock volumes. Both calibrated weighers and efficiency calculations are subject to a range of tolerable error.
Coal stocks are verified by an independent stock survey carried out by a suitably trained specialist, and a provision is made where the survey 
indicates a lower level of stock than indicated by the methods described above. Despite being an independent process, the survey depends on 
estimates and assumptions and as a result actual values may differ.
The characteristics of biomass require specialist handling and storage. On-site biomass is stored in sealed domes with a carefully controlled 
atmosphere for fire prevention purposes. Biomass stock is surveyed using regularly calibrated state-of-the-art RADAR scanning technology. 
However, this survey remains subject to a tolerable error range.
Experience indicates that the estimates and assumptions made by management in calculating stock volumes are reasonable. However, actual 
values may differ from initial calculations.
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Coal
66.4
89.4
Biomass
197.5
118.7
Other fuels and consumables
23.6
15.9
287.5
224.0
Inventories of biomass include £2.3 million of fibre and other raw materials utilised in the production of compressed wood pellets 
(2015: £2.0 million) and £2.0 million of work in progress (2015: £1.8 million) in our biomass supply business.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the year ended 31 December 2016 was £1,173.5 million (2015: £1,306.9 million).
3.4 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts owed to us by our customers for goods or services we have provided but not yet been paid for. Other 
receivables include accrued income, which is income earned in the period but not yet invoiced, largely in respect of power delivered that will be 
invoiced the following month, and prepayments, which are amounts paid by the Group for which we are yet to receive the relevant goods or 
services in return (e.g. insurance premiums relating to periods after the balance sheet date).
Accounting policy
Trade and other receivables, given their short tenor, are measured at cost. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established where 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
141
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
3.4 Trade and other receivables continued
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables
87.0
99.5
Accrued income
100.0
157.0
Prepayments and other receivables
105.9
62.8
292.9
319.3
Trade receivables principally represent sales of electricity to counterparties within both our generation and retail businesses. At 31 December 
2016, the Group had amounts receivable from four (2015: two) significant counterparties within the generation business, representing 46%  
(2015: 41%) of trade receivables, both of which paid within 15 days of receipt of invoice in line with agreed terms.
Of total trade receivables at 31 December 2016, £33.4 million (2015: £41 million) relates to retail power sales. The risk profile of retail debt is 
different from that of the generation business with a larger volume of counterparties, and hence a lower concentration of credit risk, with 
different payment terms. All past-due receivables are assessed against the Group’s credit risk policies for indicators of impairment and provisions 
made where appropriate. The value of retail debts that are past-due and not provided against, in accordance with this assessment, is not material.
Accordingly, management does not consider there to be any requirement for further provisions in excess of the normal provision for doubtful 
debts of £4.0 million (2015: £4.9 million). This provision, which largely relates to retail receivables, has been determined with reference to past 
default experiences in line with our policies. Credit and counterparty risk are both discussed in further detail in note 7.1.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is laid out in the following table:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January
4.9
6.8
Receivables written off
(3.3)
(5.0)
Provision for receivables impairment
2.4
3.1
At 31 December
4.0
4.9
3.5 Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables represent amounts we owe to our suppliers (for goods and services provided), tax authorities and other creditors that 
are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business. We make accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a result of our 
activities in the current year (e.g. fuel we have received but for which we have not yet been invoiced).
Accounting policy
Trade and other payables, given their short tenor, are measured at cost.
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade payables
87.4
41.7
Fuel accruals
77.6
131.4
Other accruals
341.7
260.8
Other payables
62.1
54.1
Amounts payable for acquisitions (note 5.1)
23.1
–
591.9
488.0
Other accruals includes £166 million (2015: £133 million) in relation to the Group’s obligation to deliver ROCs arising from its Retail activities.
The Group recognises a liability in respect of its unsettled obligations to deliver emissions allowances under the EU Emission Trading Scheme 
(ETS). Accruals at 31 December 2016 include £2.8 million (2015: £10.0 million) with respect to the Group’s estimated net liability to deliver CO2 
emissions allowances. Allowances are purchased in the market and are recorded at cost.
142
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
This section gives further information regarding the Group’s capital structure (equity and debt financing) and cash generated from operations 
during the year.
4.1 Reconciliation of net debt
Net debt is calculated by taking our borrowings (note 4.3) and subtracting cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2). The table below reconciles net 
debt in terms of changes in these balances across the year.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Net debt at 1 January
(186.6)
(98.6)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
86.7
(49.0)
(Decrease)/increase in short-term investments
–
(40.1)
Increase in borrowings
(1.5)
(0.8)
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates
7.9
1.9
Net debt at 31 December
(93.5)
(186.6)
The increase in borrowings reflects the accrual of interest on the Group’s term loans (see note 4.3). 
4.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in current and other deposit accounts that are accessible on demand. It is our policy to invest 
available cash on hand in short-term, low risk bank or building society deposits.
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
228.4
133.8
4.3 Borrowings
Our financing structure includes £325 million of term loans, comprised of a private placement of £100 million with various funds managed by 
M&G Investments, a £75 million amortising loan facility with Friends Life, underpinned by a guarantee from HM Treasury under the Infrastructure 
UK Guarantee Scheme, a £50 million amortising term loan with Green Investment Bank and a £100 million amortising term loan facility with M&G 
UK Companies Financing Fund. The loans have varying maturity profiles ranging from 2017 to 2025. All of the term loans were fully drawn down 
at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
In addition, the Group has access to a £400 million revolving credit facility (RCF). The facility matures in December 2019 and has a margin of 175 
basis points over LIBOR. At 31 December 2016 this facility had been utilised to draw down letters of credit with a total value of £57.9 million  
(2015: £37.9 million) (see note 7.5).
The Group also has a commodity trading facility, which allows us to transact prescribed volumes of commodity trades without the requirement to 
post collateral.
Accounting policy
The Group measures all debt instruments (whether financial assets or financial liabilities) initially at fair value, which equates to the principal value 
of the consideration paid or received. Subsequent to initial measurement, debt instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Transaction costs (any such costs incremental and directly attributable to the issue of the financial instrument) are included in 
the calculation of the effective interest rate and are amortised through the income statement over the life of the instrument.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of 
the facility will be drawn down. Where this is the case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
Analysis of borrowings
Borrowings at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 consisted principally of amounts drawn down against bank loans.
SECTION 4:
FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE
FINANCIALS
143
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
4.3 Borrowings continued
As at 31 December 2016
Borrowings 
before 
deferred 
finance costs 
£m
Deferred 
finance costs 
£m
Net 
borrowings 
£m
Term loans
327.9
(7.1)
320.8
Finance lease liabilities
1.1
–
1.1
Total borrowings
329.0
(7.1)
321.9
Less current portion
(37.9)
2.0
(35.9)
Non-current borrowings
291.1
(5.1)
286.0
As at 31 December 2015
Borrowings 
before 
deferred 
finance costs 
£m
Deferred 
finance costs 
£m
Net 
borrowings 
£m
Term loans
328.4
(8.9)
319.5
Finance lease liabilities
0.9
–
0.9
Total borrowings
329.3
(8.9)
320.4
Less current portion
(0.3)
–
(0.3)
Non-current borrowings
329.0
(8.9)
320.1
The term loans and RCF are guaranteed and secured by a number of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings that are party to the security arrangement.
Post balance sheet event
The acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited on 10 February 2017 (see note 5.1) was partially financed by a new acquisition loan facility of 
£375 million. At the date of approval of these financial statements, £200 million of this facility had been drawn down. The facility is unsecured  
and matures in July 2018. 
144
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
4.4 Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations is the starting point of our cash flow statement on page 124. The table below makes adjustments for any 
non-cash accounting items to reconcile our net profit for the year to the amount of cash we have generated from our operations.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit for the year
193.9
56.3
Adjustments for:
Interest payable and similar charges
7.0
18.4
Interest receivable
(0.6)
(1.4)
Tax charge
3.2
2.7
Depreciation
109.5
100.4
Asset obsolescence charges
–
109.2
Losses on disposal
3.8
7.1
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts
(176.8)
(123.7)
Defined benefit pension scheme current service cost
6.0
6.4
Non-cash charge for share-based payments
5.2
5.3
Close out of currency contracts1
14.0
–
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital
165.2
180.7
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
(63.5)
18.0
Decrease in receivables
28.6
48.9
Increase in payables
73.7
26.8
Decrease/(increase) in carbon assets
11.1
(11.8)
Decrease/(increase) in ROC and LEC assets
12.5
(85.6)
Total cash released from working capital
62.4
(3.7)
Defined benefit pension scheme contributions
(14.5)
(11.0)
Cash generated from operations
213.1
166.0
Note: 
1 
During 2016 we closed out a number of in-the-money forward foreign currency purchase contracts. As these contracts were designated into hedge accounting relationships under IAS 39,  
the benefit is being recognised in the income statement in the period the hedged transaction occurs. 
4.5 Equity and reserves
Our ordinary share capital reflects the total number of shares in issue, which are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Accounting policy
Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting its liabilities. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
As at 31 December
2016
 £m
2015 
£m
Authorised:
865,238,823 ordinary shares of 1116⁄29 pence each
100.0
100.0
Issued and fully paid:
2016 – 406,700,321 ordinary shares of 1116⁄29 pence each
47.0
46.9
47.0
46.9
SECTION 4: FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
145
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
4.5 Equity and reserves continued
The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
(number)
2015 
(number)
At 1 January
406,317,162
404,821,561
Issued under employee share schemes
383,159
1,495,601
At 31 December
406,700,321
406,317,162
The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 1116⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders 
have waived their rights to dividends.
Shares issued under employee share schemes
On 6 January a total of 30,081 shares were issued on early vesting of the Group’s Bonus Matching Plan (BMP) by one individual whose 
employment had terminated and discretion was used to vest the shares. On 29 February 335,856 shares were issued in satisfaction of shares 
vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s BMP. Throughout May to December a total of 17,222 shares were issued in satisfaction of 
options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
Translation reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s US-based subsidiaries from their functional currency (US dollar) 
into sterling for presentation in these consolidated accounts, are recognised in the translation reserve.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January
(1.1)
1.8
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
(9.1)
(2.9)
At 31 December
(10.2)
(1.1)
Other reserves
The share premium account reflects amounts received in respect of issued share capital that exceed the nominal value of the shares issued.
Other equity reserves reflect the impact of certain historical transactions, which are described under the table below.
Capital redemption reserve
Share premium
Merger reserve
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January
1.5
1.5
424.2
422.8
710.8
710.8
Issue of share capital
–
–
–
1.4
–
–
At 31 December
1.5
1.5
424.2
424.2
710.8
710.8
The capital redemption reserve arose when the Group completed a share buy-back programme in 2007.
The share premium and the merger reserve arose on the financial restructuring of the Group which took place in 2005.
Movements in the hedge reserve, which reflect the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments designated into hedge accounting 
relationships in accordance with IFRS, are set out in note 7.4.
146
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
This section provides information on the assets and liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheet that are not covered in other sections,  
including goodwill, other intangible assets and the provision for reinstatement.
5.1 Acquisitions
Accounting policy
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are recognised at the point the Group obtains control of the target (the acquisition date). The 
consideration transferred and the assets and liabilities acquired are measured at their fair value on the acquisition date. The assets and liabilities 
acquired are recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet and the profits of the acquired business are recognised in the Consolidated income 
statement from the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement in the period the acquisition occurs. 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Acquisitions in the financial year
The transactions in this section occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016 and are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
Acquisition of four OCGT development projects
On 6 December 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Progress Power Limited (PPL), Hirwaun Power Limited (HPL), 
Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) and Abergelli Power Limited (APL). PPL, HPL, MPL and APL each hold a proposed development option, on land 
located in England and Wales, for a 299MW Open-Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) project. Both PPL and HPL have obtained Development Consent 
Orders for their sites. The acquisitions represent diversification of our generation capability in response to the changing energy requirements 
of the UK.
Initial consideration of £18.6 million was settled in cash on 3 January 2017, with the amount held as a liability in the balance sheet at 31 December 
2016. The final purchase price depends upon future clearing prices in T-4 capacity market auctions from 2016–2020. The range of possible 
outcomes being zero further consideration if the capacity market clearing price does not exceed £28/KW in these auctions, with a maximum 
contingent consideration payable of £72 million, based on a clearing price of £75/KW. The fair value of the contingent consideration at 31 December 
2016 was assessed at £3.8 million based on a projection of likely future capacity market clearing prices, discounted to present value at a risk free 
rate of 2%. 
The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of the four companies, 
and measured at fair value, are set out in the table below:
PPL
£m
HPL
£m
MPL
£m
APL 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial assets
2.9
3.0
–
–
5.9
Property, plant and equipment
0.4
0.6
0.2
0.2
1.4
Financial liabilities
(2.9)
(3.0)
–
–
(5.9)
Intangible development asset
8.9
8.7
1.7
1.7
21.0
Total identifiable net assets
9.3
9.3
1.9
1.9
22.4
Goodwill
–
–
–
–
–
Fair value of consideration payable
9.3
9.3
1.9
1.9
22.4
Comprised of:
Initial consideration payable on 3 January 2017 in cash
7.4
7.4
1.9
1.9
18.6
Fair value of contingent consideration
1.9
1.9
–
–
3.8
The intangible development assets identified as part of the acquisitions represent the value of planning and consent obtained for each site.  
No cash or cash equivalents were acquired in the transaction, therefore the net cash outflow on acquisition was £18.6 million.
The four acquired companies did not trade in the period between the acquisition date and the balance sheet, and no further costs were incurred. 
Accordingly, the Consolidated income statement includes no revenue or EBITDA in respect of the acquired companies. Transaction costs of  
£0.7 million were recognised as an expense in the period. 
Acquisitions after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements were approved
The following disclosures relate to acquisitions completed between 1 January and 15 February 2017. 
SECTION 5:
OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
FINANCIALS
147
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
5.1 Acquisitions continued
Acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited
On 6 December 2016, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited (Opus Energy) for a consideration of  
£340 million, plus interest calculated on the amount of Opus Energy’s net assets from 31 March 2016 to the acquisition completion date.
Opus Energy is a well-established energy retail business serving business customers in the SME market. The transaction represents a 
diversification of the Group’s retail offering, strengthening our presence in the SME market, and provides a range of strategic and financial 
benefits. Opus Energy is expected to contribute positively to earnings and cash flow immediately following the acquisition and the combination 
provides a robust platform for future growth.
The transaction was approved by shareholders on 8 February 2017 and subsequently completed on 10 February 2017, the Group acquired 100% 
of the issued share capital on this date.
Total consideration paid in cash, including interest as described above, amounted to £367 million. No deferred or contingent consideration is 
payable. The acquisition was funded by a combination of existing cash reserves and a new £375 million loan facility which was partially drawn on 
10 February 2017. Further details regarding the new facility are disclosed in note 4.3.
Given the short period of time between the transaction completion date and the approval of these financial statements, the initial accounting 
for the business combination is not complete. The table below provides the approximate acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed in the transaction based as the most recently available management information. These figures, including the indicative 
goodwill, are provisional. 
Total 
£m
Financial assets
169.9
Property, plant and equipment
5.6
Financial liabilities
(130.3)
Total identifiable net assets
45.2
Goodwill
322.1
Fair value of consideration payable
367.3
The provisional goodwill reflects the economic and strategic benefits described above. A full review and finalisation of identifiable intangible 
assets acquired will be completed before the initial accounting for the transaction is completed. Accordingly, the amount of goodwill recognised 
in the financial statements may be lower than indicated above.
The provisional financial assets acquired include £170 million of receivables, the majority of which reflect trade receivables for energy supplied 
to customers measured at cost. By virtue of their short tenor, the contractual amounts receivable and the fair value of these receivables are 
considered to be the same. A provision for doubtful debts of £3 million is included within the values above and reflects the best estimate of the 
contractual cash flows not expected to be recovered.
As the transaction completed after the balance sheet date, there are no amounts included in these financial statements in respect of the 
transaction other than transaction costs of £1.6 million incurred before 31 December 2016, which have been recognised as an expense in 
Operating and administrative costs in the income statement.
148
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
5.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the assets acquired. Our goodwill relates to 
the acquisition of Haven Power in 2009 and Billington Bioenergy in 2015. Other intangibles include development assets recognised on the 
acquisition of four OCGT development projects in 2016 and amounts paid in respect of carbon emission allowances for future years.
Accounting policy
Goodwill is initially recognised and measured at the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortised but reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the CGU to which it relates and the recoverable amount for that CGU assessed. 
Intangibles are recognised at fair value or cost.
The table shows movements and balances:
Goodwill 
£m
Development 
assets
£m
Carbon 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost and carrying amount:
At 1 January 2015
10.7
–
–
10.7
Additions at cost
3.8
–
11.8
15.6
At 1 January 2016
14.5
–
11.8
26.3
Utilised in period
–
–
(11.8)
(11.8)
Additions at cost
–
21.0
0.7
21.7
At 31 December 2016
14.5
21.0
0.7
36.2
Goodwill
Total goodwill in the Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 was £14.5 million, with £10.7 million arising on the 
acquisition of Haven Power in 2009 attributed to the Haven Power CGU and £3.8 million arising on the acquisition of Billington Bioenergy in 2015 
attributable to the Billington Bioenergy CGU.
The recoverable amount of both the Haven Power and Billington Bioenergy CGUs is calculated annually, based on a value in use calculation. The 
approach for this calculation is the same as that used for the wider asset impairment review conducted by the Group as at 31 December 2016 and 
is disclosed in note 2.4. At 31 December 2016, the value in use of goodwill was significantly in excess of its book value in both the Haven Power 
and Billington Bioenergy CGUs.
Development assets
The development assets arose on the acquisition of four OCGT projects in December 2016 (see note 5.1) and reflect the value of planning and 
consents acquired as part of that transaction. They were measured at fair value on acquisition and will be amortised over the expected period of 
useful economic life of the projects once they reach commercial operations. Until operations commence, the assets are considered to have an 
indefinite life and thus will be subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date.
At 31 December 2016, given the short time since the acquisition of the assets, management consider the fair value of the development assets to 
be equivalent to the purchase price.
Carbon assets
Carbon assets arise on the purchase of CO2 emissions allowances in excess of the amount allocated under the ETS and required for the current 
financial year, and are measured at cost, net of any impairment.
The charge to the income statement, within fuel costs, reflects the cost of emissions allowances required to satisfy the obligation for the current 
year and takes into account generation and market purchases allocated to the current financial year, and to the extent further purchases are 
required, the market price at the balance sheet date.
SECTION 5: OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
149
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
5.3 Provisions
We make provision for reinstatement to cover the estimated costs of decommissioning and demolishing our generation assets and remediating 
the site at the end of the useful economic lives of the assets. The amount represents the discounted present value of the expected costs. 
Accounting policy
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group 
will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Specifically, provision is made for the estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the useful economic life of the Group’s generating assets, 
when a legal or constructive obligation arises, on a discounted basis. The amount provided represents the present value of the expected costs. 
In view of the uncertainty of assessing the amount of any proceeds from the disposal of the assets at the decommissioning date, no reduction 
in the provision is made for any such proceeds. The discount rate used is a risk free pre-tax rate of 1.9% (2015: 2.4%), reflecting the fact that the 
estimated future cash flows have built in risks specific to the liability. An amount equivalent to the discounted provision is capitalised within 
property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. The unwinding of the discount is included in interest 
payable and similar charges.
Reinstatement
£m
Carrying amount:
At 1 January 2015
29.8
Unwinding of discount
0.7
At 1 January 2016
30.5
Unwinding of discount
0.8
Adjustment for change in discount rate
3.7
At 31 December 2016
35.0
The provision is estimated using the assumption that the decommissioning and reinstatement will take place at the end of the expected useful 
life of the power station in 2039, and has been estimated using existing technology at current prices based on independent third party advice, 
updated on a triennial basis. The most recent update took place in December 2014.
150
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
The notes in this section relate to the remuneration of our directors and employees, including our obligations under retirement benefit schemes.
6.1 Employees and directors
This note provides a more detailed breakdown of the cost of our employees, including executive directors. The average number of employees in 
Operations (staff based at production sites), Retail services (employees in our Retail segment) and Central services (those working in central 
functions) are also provided.
Further information in relation to pay and remuneration of the executive directors can be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee, 
starting on page 82.
Staff costs (including executive directors)
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Included in other operating and administrative expenses (note 2.3)
Wages and salaries
74.3
79.8
Social security costs
8.1
9.4
Other pension costs
12.3
12.3
Share-based payments (note 6.2)
5.2
5.3
99.9
106.8
Average monthly number of people employed (including executive directors)
Years ended 31 December
2016 
(number)
2015 
(number)
Generation operations
645
644
Biomass supply operations
130
144
Retail services
399
353
Central services
293
301
1,467
1,442
6.2 Share-based payments
We operate two share option schemes for our employees – the BMP for directors and senior executives, and the Savings-Related Share Option 
Plan (SAYE) for all qualifying employees. We incur a non-cash charge in respect of these schemes in our income statement, which is set out below 
along with a detailed description of each scheme and the number of options outstanding.
Accounting policy
All of the Group’s share-based payments are equity-settled. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the equity 
instrument at the date of grant and expensed on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that will 
ultimately vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions, which is revised at each balance sheet date.
Costs recognised in the income statement in relation to share-based payments during the year were as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
BMP
2.6
3.7
SAYE
2.6
1.6
5.2
5.3
SECTION 6:
OUR PEOPLE
FINANCIALS
151
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
6.2 Share-based payments continued
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
Between 2008 and 2010, qualifying employees could buy up to £1,500 worth of Partnership Shares in any one tax year. Matching shares 
were awarded to employees to match any shares they bought, in a ratio of one-to-one, with the cost of matching shares borne by the Group. 
There have been no awards under the SIP Partnership and Matching Share plan since 2010.
Shares in the Company held under trust and under the Company’s control as a result of the SIP were as follows:
Shares 
held at
1 January 
2016 
(number)
Shares 
acquired 
during year 
(number)
Shares 
transferred 
during year 
(number)
Shares 
held at 
31 December 
2016 
(number)
Cost at 
31 December 
2016 
£000
Nominal 
value at 
31 December 
2016 
£000
Market 
value at 
31 December 
2016 
£000
SIP
188,465
–
(35,431)
153,034
1,436
18
578
Bonus Matching Plan
Under the BMP, annual awards of performance and service-related shares are made for no consideration to executive directors and other senior 
executives up to a maximum of 150% of their annual bonus. A proportion of the shares vesting is conditional upon whether the Group’s Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) matches or outperforms an index (determined in accordance with the scheme rules) over three years and a proportion 
of the shares vesting is conditional upon performance against the internal balanced corporate scorecard. The fair value of the 2016, 2015 and 
2014 BMP awards, of £2.6 million, £3.3 million and £5.4 million respectively, is being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the corresponding three year vesting periods.
The fair value of BMP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different 
levels of vesting. The key inputs to the valuation model for the 2016 awards are the share price at the grant date (249.7 pence), expected volatility 
(41%), and risk free interest rate (0.45%). The fair value of each option granted was 153 pence.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the BMP awards is as follows:
2016 
BMP 
(number)
2015 
BMP 
(number)
At 1 January
3,411,792
4,053,414
Granted
1,686,095
1,560,552
Forfeited
(623,597)
(505,781)
Exercised
(337,146)
(958,566)
Expired
(943,212)
(737,827)
At 31 December
3,193,932
3,411,792
50% of the BMP options granted in 2016 will vest conditional on Group TSR relative to the TSR of a comparator group of companies with the 
remaining 50% vesting conditional upon the internal balanced corporate scorecard (2015: 50% TSR-linked, 50% scorecard-linked). The share price 
on the grant date for BMP options awarded in the year was 250 pence (2015: 397 pence) and the weighted average fair value of the BMP options 
granted during the year was 153 pence (2015: 213 pence).
For the BMP options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 232 pence (2015: 397 pence).
All of the BMP options outstanding at the end of the period had an exercise price of £nil (2015: £nil). The weighted average remaining contractual 
life was 17 months (2015: 14 months).
The number of options exercisable at the year end was nil (2015: nil).
152
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
6.2 Share-based payments continued
Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE)
In April 2016, participation in the SAYE Plan was offered again to all qualifying employees. Options were granted for employees to acquire shares 
at a price of 203 pence (2015: 319 pence), representing a discount of 20% to the prevailing market price determined in accordance with the 
scheme rules. The options are exercisable at the end of three or five year savings contracts. The fair value of the options granted in connection 
with the SAYE Plan of £3.9 million (2015: £4.4 million) is being charged to the income statement over the term of the relevant contracts.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the SAYE plans are as follows:
2016
2015
SAYE 
three-year 
(number)
SAYE 
five-year 
(number)
SAYE 
three-year 
(number)
SAYE 
five-year 
(number)
At 1 January
1,948,209
934,041
963,911
1,107,420
Granted
3,150,023
919,723
2,127,867
862,670
Forfeited
(73,907)
–
(16,683)
(5,440)
Exercised
(8,618)
(8,604)
(2,414)
(437,976)
Expired
(1,728,801)
(848,451)
(1,124,472)
(592,633)
At 31 December
3,286,906
996,709 1,948,209
934,041
The fair value of SAYE awards is calculated using a Black-Scholes model, which compares exercise price to share price at the date of grant.
The fair value of SAYE options granted and the inputs to the option pricing model used in the current and previous year are set out in the table 
below:
Grant date
5 April  
2016
5 April  
2016
2 April  
2015
2 April  
2015
Share price at grant date (pence)
286
286
399
399
Vesting period
3 years
5 years
3 years
5 years
Exercise price (pence)
203
203
319
319
Dividend yield
2.9%
5.0%
1.9%
1.9%
Annual risk free interest rate
0.81%
0.95%
1.08%
1.36%
Expected volatility
40.0%
37.6%
43.0%
43.0%
Fair value of options granted (pence)
101
82
142
160
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three and five years 
respectively. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For the SAYE options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 337 pence (2015: 400 pence).
The weighted average exercise price of SAYE options outstanding at the end of the period was 216 pence (2015: 331 pence). The weighted 
average remaining contractual life was 31 months (2015: 32 months).
The number of options exercisable at the year end was nil (2015: 10,894).
Additional information in relation to the Group’s share-based incentive plans is included in the Remuneration Committee report.
6.3 Retirement benefit obligations
We operate a defined benefit and three defined contribution pension schemes.
The Drax Power Group (DPG) section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS) is a defined benefit scheme; a pension arrangement under 
which participating members receive a pension benefit at retirement determined by the scheme rules. Members are typically entitled to an 
annual pension on retirement of 1/80th of final pensionable salary for each year of service plus a tax-free lump sum of three times pension.
The Drax Group Personal Pension Plan, Haven Power Personal Pension Plan and Drax Biomass Inc. 401(K) Plan are defined contribution schemes, 
which provide a retirement benefit that is dependent upon actual contributions made by the Group and members of the relevant scheme.
SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
153
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Accounting policy
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered services that entitle them to the 
contributions.
For the defined benefit pension scheme, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement of the obligation, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the 
effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on scheme assets (excluding interest), is recognised immediately in the balance sheet with 
a charge or credit to the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. Defined benefit costs, including current service 
costs, past service costs and gains and losses on curtailments and settlements are recognised in the income statement as part of operating 
and administrative expenses in the period in which they occur. The net interest expense is recognised in finance costs.
The income statement charge for the defined contribution scheme represents the contributions due to be paid by the Group in respect of the 
current period.
Significant judgement areas
Measurement of the defined benefit obligation using the projected unit credit method involves the use of key assumptions, including discount 
rates, inflation rates, salary and pension increases, and mortality rates. These actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually and modified as 
appropriate. The Group believes that the assumptions utilised in measuring obligations under the scheme are reasonable based on prior 
experience, market conditions and the advice of scheme actuaries. However, actual results may differ from such assumptions.
The assumptions applied in 2016 have been prepared on a consistent basis with those in the previous period and in accordance with independent 
actuarial advice received.
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates three defined contribution schemes, The Drax Group Personal Pension Plan, Haven Power Personal Pension Plan and Drax 
Biomass inc. 401(K) Plan, for all qualifying employees. Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Total included in staff costs (note 6.1)
5.6
5.9
As at 31 December 2016, contributions of £0.5 million (2015: £0.4 million) due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to 
the schemes. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Defined benefit scheme
The DPG section of the ESPS was closed to new members as from 1 January 2002 unless they qualify through being existing members of another 
part of the ESPS. Members who joined before this date continue to build up pension benefits as part of the scheme.
The DPG ESPS exposes the Group to actuarial and other risks, the most significant of which are considered to be:
Investment risk
The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperform 
this yield, this will create a deficit. The scheme holds a significant proportion of growth assets (equities, property and direct 
lending) which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term. 
The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the scheme’s long term objectives.
Discount rate risk
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed upon the scheme’s liabilities, although this will be partially 
offset by an increase in the value of the scheme’s bond holdings.
Longevity risk
The majority of the scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will 
result in an increase in the liabilities of the scheme.
Inflation risk
The majority of the scheme’s obligations to pay benefits are linked to inflation, and as such higher inflation will lead to higher 
liabilities. The majority of the assets held by the scheme are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, such 
that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. In most cases, caps on inflationary increases are in place, to protect 
against extreme inflation.
154
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Other risks include operational risks (such as paying out the wrong benefits), legislative risks (such as the Government increasing the burden 
on pension schemes through new legislation) and other demographic risks (such as making a higher proportion of members with dependants 
eligible to receive pensions from the Group). The Trustees insure certain benefits payable on death before retirement.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension. See note 7.5 for details.
The most recent funding valuation of the DPG ESPS carried out by Aon Hewitt, a qualified independent actuary, as at 31 March 2016 is not 
yet complete; however the actuarial review at 31 December 2016 is based on the same membership and other data as the initial results of this 
funding valuation. The scheme board accepted the advice of the actuary and approved the use of these assumptions for the purpose of 
assessing the scheme cost. Future valuations are required by law at intervals of no more than three years.
The results of the latest funding valuation at 31 March 2016 have been adjusted to the balance sheet date, taking into account experience over 
the period since 31 March 2016, changes in market conditions and differences in financial and demographic assumptions. The present value of 
the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method. The principal 
assumptions used, which reflect the nature and term of the scheme liabilities, are as follows:
As at 31 December
2016
% p.a.
2015
% p.a.
Discount rate
2.8
3.9
Inflation (RPI)
3.2
3.1
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions
3.1
3.0
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
3.8
3.7
Mortality assumptions are based on recent actual mortality experience of scheme members and allow for expected future improvements in 
mortality rates. The assumptions are that a member aged 60 in 2016 will live, on average, for a further 27 years if they are male (2015: 27 years) 
and for a further 29 years if they are female (2015: 29 years). Life expectancy at age 60 for male and female non-pensioners currently aged 45 
is assumed to be 28 and 31 years respectively (2015: 28 and 31 years respectively).
The net liability recognised in the balance sheet is the excess of the present value of the defined benefit obligation over the fair value of the plan 
assets, determined as follows:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Defined benefit obligation
311.4
244.6
Fair value of plan assets
(281.3)
(215.1)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet
30.1
29.5
The amounts recognised in the income statement, within other operating and administrative expenses and finance costs, are as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Included in staff costs (note 6.1):
Current service cost
6.0
6.4
Included in finance costs (note 2.5):
Interest on net defined benefit liability
0.9
1.1
Total amounts recognised in the income statement
6.9
7.5
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in full, as follows: 
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cumulative actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme at 1 January
(70.8)
(72.0)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme recognised in the year
(8.4)
1.2
Cumulative losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 31 December
(79.2)
(70.8)
SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
155
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Defined benefit obligation at 1 January
244.6
242.1
Current and past service cost
6.0
6.4
Employee contributions
0.2
0.2
Interest cost
9.4
8.9
Actuarial (gains)/losses
58.8
(5.8)
Benefits paid
(7.6)
(7.2)
Defined benefit obligation at 31 December
311.4
244.6
The actuarial losses of £58.8 million (2015: £5.8 million gains) reflect losses of £71.4 million arising from changes in financial assumptions 
(2015: gains of £2.3 million), offset by £1.9 million gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions and gains arising from scheme 
experience of £10.7 million (2015: gains of £1.8 million and £1.7 million respectively).
The losses due to changes in financial assumptions principally reflect the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising as a result 
of the change in discount rate assumption to 2.75% (2015: 3.9%) following reductions in corporate bond yields.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January
215.1
207.8
Interest income on plan assets
8.5
7.8
Remeasurement (losses)/gains
50.4
(4.6)
Employer contributions
14.7
11.1
Employee contributions
0.2
0.2
Benefits paid
(7.6)
(7.2)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December
281.3
215.1
Employer contributions included payments totalling £8.3 million (2015: £5.1 million) to reduce the actuarial deficit.
The actual return on plan assets in the period was £58.9 million (2015: £3.2 million).
The fair values of the major categories of plan assets were as follows:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Gilts
105.9
–
Equities(1)
65.2
64.6
Fixed interest bonds(2)
61.3
113.9
Property
29.5
27.9
Cash and other assets(3)
19.4
8.7
Fair value of total plan assets
281.3
215.1
Notes:
(1) At 31 December 2016 the scheme’s long-term asset strategy was: global equity (20%), direct lending (10%), emerging market equity (5%), fixed interest bonds (15%), corporate bonds (6%), liability 
driven investing (29%) and long lease property (15%).
(2) Fixed interest bonds include a mixture of corporate, Government and absolute return bonds. Approximately 27% of the bonds have a sub-investment grade credit rating (i.e. BB+ or lower). 
(3) Other assets include £19.1 million of investments in direct lending, a type of private equity vehicle, which is not quoted in an active market (2015: £7.9 million).
156
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The pension plan assets do not include any ordinary shares issued by Drax Group plc or any property occupied by the Group.
The Group employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. Historical markets are studied 
and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles. The overall 
expected rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class relative to the actual asset allocation 
for the scheme.
The assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate, rate of increase in pensions paid and expected return on plan assets all have a potentially 
significant effect on the measurement of the scheme deficit. The following table provides an indication of the sensitivity of the pension deficit 
at 31 December 2016 to changes in these assumptions:
%
(Decrease)/
Increase in 
net liability 
£m
Discount rate
– Increase
0.25
(15.6)
– Decrease
0.25
16.2
Inflation rate(1)
– Increase
0.25
(14.0)
– Decrease
0.25
13.6
Life expectancy – Increase
1 year
(10.9)
– Decrease
1 year
11.0
Note:
(1) The sensitivity of the scheme liabilities to salary and pension increases is closely correlated with inflation. 
The Group is exposed to investment and other experience risks, as described above, and may need to make additional contributions where it is 
estimated that the benefits will not be met from regular contributions and expected investment income.
As at 31 December
2016
 £m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Defined benefit obligation
(311.4)
(244.6)
(242.1)
(220.9)
(199.0)
Fair value of plan assets
281.3
215.1
207.8
179.2
156.9
Deficit
(30.1)
(29.5)
(34.3)
(41.7)
(42.1)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities
10.7
1.7
1.6
8.7
(1.7)
Experience adjustments on plan assets
50.4
(4.6)
13.6
9.4
(3.0)
The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees of the Group (60%), former employees of the Group who are yet to retire 
(5%) and retired pensioners (35%). The weighted-average period over which benefit payments are expected to be made, or the duration of the 
scheme liabilities, was assessed at the 31 March 2016 funding valuation to be 21 years.
The Group expects to contribute £23.8 million to the defined benefit pension plan during the 12 months ended 31 December 2017 and make 
regular deficit contributions over the period to 2025.
The Group intends to fund the deficit, agreed at the 31 March 2013 funding valuation, over the period to 31 December 2019.
SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
157
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
This section provides disclosures around financial risk management, including the financial instruments we use to mitigate such risks.
7.1 Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including commodity price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, 
counterparty risk and credit risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of commodity and financial 
markets and seeks to manage potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Risk management is carried out by the risk management 
committees as explained in Principal risks and uncertainties (page 55) which identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks in close coordination 
with the Group’s trading function under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity, the price of coal, sustainable wood 
fibre and pellets and other fuels, and the price of CO2 emissions allowances. Price variations and market cycles have historically influenced the 
financial results of the Group and are expected to continue to do so.
The Group has a policy of securing forward power sales, purchases of fuel and CO2 emissions allowances when profitable to do so. 
All commitments to sell power under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Group’s cash flow 
exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of electricity.
The Group purchases coal, sustainable biomass and other fuels under either fixed or variable priced contracts with different maturities from a 
variety of domestic and international sources. All international physical coal purchase contracts transacted at a fixed price and financial coal 
contracts exchanging floating price coal for fixed price amounts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Group’s cash flow 
exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of coal.
The Group purchases CO2 emissions allowances under fixed price contracts with different maturity dates from a range of domestic and 
international sources. All commitments to purchase CO2 emissions allowances under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges 
as they reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of CO2 emissions allowances.
Commodity price sensitivity
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to commodity prices for outstanding monetary items at the balance 
sheet date. The analysis is based on the Group’s commodity financial instruments held at each balance sheet date.
If commodity prices had been 5% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
 
– profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2016 would increase/decrease by £3.4 million (2015: decrease/increase by £6.7 million). 
This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to oil derivatives; and 
 
– the hedge reserve would increase/decrease by £36.3 million (2015: decrease/increase by £11.5 million) mainly as a result of the changes in the 
fair value of financial coal and power derivatives. 
Interest rate risk
Historically the Group has been exposed to interest rate risk principally in relation to its bank debt, and has sought to mitigate this risk with 
interest rate hedges on a proportion of its debt facilities. The Group has no interest rate swaps outstanding at the balance sheet date; however 
this risk management tool remains available to the Group. Information about the Group’s instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk and 
their repayment schedules is provided below.
Interest rate sensitivity
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet 
date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was 
outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 1% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit after tax and net assets for the year ended 
31 December 2016 would decrease/increase by £1.8 million (2015: decrease/increase by £1.8 million) as a result of the changes in interest payable 
during the period.
SECTION 7:
RISK MANAGEMENT
158
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.1 Financial risk management continued
Foreign currency risk
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into in order to hedge fixed price international coal purchases in US dollars, 
wood pellet purchases in US dollars, Canadian dollars and Euros, and CO2 emissions allowances purchases in Euros. 
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising a variety of foreign currency exchange contracts. The Group 
enters into forward currency purchase contracts to hedge its anticipated foreign currency requirements over a rolling five-year period for both 
contracted and forecast transactions.
Foreign currency sensitivity
If sterling exchange rates had been 5% stronger/weaker against other currencies and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
 
– profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2016 would decrease/increase by £252.6 million/£277.7 million (2015: decrease/increase by 
£233.0 million/£241.1 million). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to foreign currency exchange contracts entered in relation to 
fuel purchase contracts; and 
 
– other equity reserves would increase/decrease by £78.7 million/£87 million (2015: increase/decrease by £67.8 million/£75.0 million) as a result 
of the changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts.
Liquidity risk
The treasury function is responsible for liquidity, funding and settlement management under policies approved by the Board of directors. Liquidity 
needs are monitored using regular forecasting of operational cash flows and financing commitments. The Group maintains a mixture of cash and 
cash equivalents, and committed facilities in order to ensure sufficient funding for business requirements.
The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables include both interest 
and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the 
balance sheet date.
As at 31 December 2016
Within 
3 months 
£m
3 months–
1 year 
£m
>1 year 
£m
Total
 £m
Term loans, gross value
3.0
46.7
326.7
376.4
Finance lease liabilities, carrying value
0.1
0.1
1.0
1.2
Borrowings, contractual maturity
3.1
46.8
327.7
377.6
Trade and other payables
400.1
181.7
10.1
591.9
403.2
228.5
337.8
969.5
As at 31 December 2015
Within 
3 months 
£m
3 months–
1 year 
£m
>1 year 
£m
Total 
£m
Term loans, gross value
3.1
9.8
374.5
387.4
Finance lease liabilities, carrying value
–
0.3
0.6
0.9
Borrowings, contractual maturity
3.1
10.1
375.1
388.3
Trade and other payables
327.2
147.7
13.1
488.0
330.3
157.8
388.2
876.3
Interest payments are calculated based on forward interest rates estimated at the balance sheet date using publicly available information.
The weighted average interest rate payable at the balance sheet date on our term loans was 4.17% (2015: 4.22%).
SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
159
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.1 Financial risk management continued
The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of derivative financial instruments which are marked to market,  
based on the undiscounted net cash inflows/(outflows). Where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been 
determined by reference to projected commodity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates, as illustrated by the yield or other forward curves 
existing at the reporting date.
As at 31 December 2016
Within 
1 year 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
>2 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Commodity contracts, net
78.7
(25.1)
(14.2)
39.4
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts, net
903.5
870.9
1,696.5
3,470.9
982.2
845.8
1,682.3
3,510.3
As at 31 December 2015
Within 
1 year 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
>2 years
 £m
Total 
£m
Commodity contracts, net
233.1
(84.5)
(73.0)
75.6
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts, net
1,019.1
1,005.5
1,859.2
3,883.8
1,252.2
921.0
1,786.2
3,959.4
In managing liquidity risk, the Group has access to facilities that enable it to accelerate the cash flows associated with certain of its receivables 
(principally those related to ROC sales and retail power sales). Each of these facilities is provided on a non-recourse basis and accordingly 
receivables sold under each facility are derecognised from the balance sheet at the point of sale. At the balance sheet date there was  
£111.1 million utilised under ROC agreements and £74.4 million utilised under Receivable financing agreements. 
Counterparty risk
As the Group relies on third party suppliers for the delivery of currency, coal, sustainable compressed wood pellets and other goods and services,  
it is exposed to the risk of non-performance by these third party suppliers. If a large supplier were to fall into financial difficulty and/or fail to deliver 
against its contract with the Group, there would be additional costs associated with securing the lost goods or services from other suppliers.
The Group enters into contracts for the sale of electricity to a number of counterparties. The failure of one or more of these counterparties to 
perform their contractual obligations may cause the Group financial distress or increase the risk profile of the Group.
Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date, as summarised below:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
228.4
133.8
Trade and other receivables
296.9
324.2
Derivative financial instruments
891.3
609.2
1,416.6
1,067.2
Trade and other receivables are stated gross of the provision for doubtful debts of £4.0 million (2015: £4.9 million).
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by risk management committees. Where considered 
appropriate, counterparties are required to provide credit support in the form of a parent company guarantee, letter of credit, deed of charge,  
or cash collateral. In addition, where deemed appropriate the Group has historically purchased credit default swaps.
The investment of surplus cash is undertaken to maximise the return within Board approved policies. These policies manage credit risk exposure 
by setting out minimum rating requirements, maximum investment with any one counterparty and the maturity profile.
160
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.1 Financial risk management continued
Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure it is able to continue as a going concern, and maintain its credit rating while maximising the return to 
shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders’ equity 
(excluding the hedge reserve), plus net debt. Net debt is comprised of borrowings disclosed in note 4.3 and cash and cash equivalents in note 4.2.
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Borrowings
321.9
320.4
Cash and cash equivalents
(228.4)
(133.8)
Net debt
93.5
186.6
Total shareholders’ equity, excluding hedge reserve
1,739.8
1,567.5
Dividend policy
It is the Group’s policy to distribute 50% of underlying profit after tax to shareholders each year. The policy is designed to ensure dividends  
reflect the underlying trading performance of the business whilst retaining sufficient cash within the Group to support strategic development 
objectives and working capital requirements. Underlying earnings are based on earnings calculated in accordance with IFRS adjusted to exclude 
the post-tax impact of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts and any other one-off or otherwise exceptional items that the Board 
considers to be unrepresentative of the Group’s trading and operational performance.
7.2 Derivative financial instruments
We enter into forward contracts for the purchase and sale of physical commodities (principally power, gas, coal, sustainable biomass and CO2 
emissions allowances) to secure market level bark and dark green spreads on future electricity sales, and also financial contracts (principally 
currency exchange contracts and financial coal and oil derivatives) to fix Sterling cash flows.
We hold these contracts for risk management purposes, to manage key risks facing the business including commodity price risk and foreign 
currency risk (see note 7.1).
A successful commercial hedging strategy is critical to our business model. Our policy is to fix exposures to commodity price movements and 
changes in foreign exchange rates using derivative contracts such as those described above. This strategy aims to de-risk the business, providing 
security and certainty over cash flows into the future. As at 31 December 2016, due to the weakening of Sterling against the US dollar, our forward 
derivative contracts, consisting largely of forward contracts for the purchase of foreign currencies (principally for the purpose of fixing the 
Sterling cost of sustainable compressed wood pellet purchases), increased to £545.1 million (2015: £143 million) thereby protecting the Group to 
that extent from the increased cost of future supplies denominated in foreign currencies from the weakness of Sterling.
Accounting policy
At the balance sheet date all contracts (subject to certain exemptions described below) must be measured at fair value, which is in essence the 
difference between the price we have secured in the contract, and the price we could achieve in the market at that point in time.
Changes in fair value are recognised either within the income statement or the hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the contract in question 
qualifies as an effective hedge under IFRS (see note 7.4).
Where possible, the Group has taken advantage of the own use exemption which allows qualifying contracts to be excluded from fair value 
mark-to-market accounting. This applies to certain contracts for physical commodities entered into and held for our own purchase, sale or usage 
requirements, including forward contracts for the purchase of biomass, and coal from domestic sources.
Contracts which do not qualify for the own use exemption – principally power, gas, financial oil, financial coal, CO2 emissions allowances and 
forward foreign currency exchange contracts – are accounted for as derivatives in accordance with IAS 39 and are recorded in the balance sheet 
at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected through the hedge reserve (note 7.4) to the extent that the contracts are designated as effective 
hedges in accordance with IAS 39, or the income statement where the hedge accounting requirements are not met. The Group enters into 
forward contracts solely for the purpose of financial risk management and considers all of its contracts to be economic hedges, regardless of 
whether the specific criteria for hedge accounting are met. 
Derivative financial instruments with a maturity date within 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as current assets or liabilities. 
Instruments with a maturity date beyond 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities.
SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
161
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.2 Derivative financial instruments continued
The location in the consolidated financial statements of the changes in fair value of derivative contracts in 2016 is summarised in the table below:
Accounting for derivative contracts
Gains/(losses) on 
contracts in 2016
Accounting treatment for gains/(losses) 
in the consolidated financial statements
Commodity contracts
Power
(88.6)
Hedge reserve
Coal from international sources
5.6
Income statement
Coal from domestic sources
n/a
Own-use exemption
Biomass
n/a
Own-use exemption
CO2 emissions allowances
(2.7)
Hedge reserve
Gas
(76.5)
Income statement
Financial contracts
Foreign currency exchange contracts
241.9
Income statement
384.1
Hedge reserve
Financial coal
(13.7)
Income statement
37.3
Hedge reserve
Financial oil and other financial products
19.5
Income statement
Total net gains in hedge reserve
330.1
Total net gains in income statement
176.8
Critical judgement areas
The fair values of derivative instruments for commodities and foreign currency exchange contracts are determined using forward price curves. 
Forward price curves represent the Group’s estimates of the prices at which a buyer or seller could contract today for delivery or settlement of 
a commodity or foreign exchange payment or receipt, at future dates. The Group generally bases forward price curves upon readily obtainable 
market price quotations, as the Group’s commodity and forward foreign exchange contracts do not generally extend beyond the actively traded 
portion of these curves. However, the forward price curves used are only an estimate of how future prices will move and are, therefore, subjective. 
Where derivative financial instruments include options these are valued using an option pricing model. Inputs to the model include market 
commodity prices, forward price curves, the term of the option, discount rate and assumptions around volatility based on historical movements. 
The inputs include assumptions around future transactions and market movements, as well as credit risk and are, therefore, subjective.
Fair value accounting
Forward contracts for the sale of power, purchase of coal from international sources, purchase of CO2 emissions allowances, financial coal, 
financial oil, gas (collectively “Commodity contracts”) and foreign currency exchange contracts are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value 
as follows:
As at 31 December 2016
As at 31 December 2015
Assets 
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Assets 
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Commodity contracts:
Less than one year
91.1
(164.0)
264.1
(226.1)
More than one year but not more than two years
9.8
(51.7)
81.2
(94.1)
More than two years
1.9
(7.5)
27.0
(53.4)
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts:
Less than one year
313.9
(87.0)
66.7
(48.2)
More than one year but not more than two years
185.8
(26.0)
93.8
(81.7)
More than two years
288.8
(27.3)
76.4
(70.9)
Total
891.3
(363.5)
609.2
(574.4)
Less: non-current portion
Commodity contracts
(11.7)
59.2
(108.2)
147.5
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts
(474.6)
53.3
(170.2)
152.6
Total non-current portion
(486.3)
112.5
(278.4)
300.1
Current portion
405.0
(251.0)
330.8
(274.3)
162
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.2 Derivative financial instruments continued
The total movement in the fair value of these contracts of £506.9 million (2015: £147.1 million gain) is recognised in the income statement or the 
hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 are met, as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts recognised in arriving at operating profit
176.8
123.7
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts recognised in the hedge reserve (note 7.4)
330.1
23.4
Total unrealised gains on derivative contracts
506.9
147.1
We maintain a substantial foreign currency hedging programme to secure the sterling cost of future purchases of fuel in foreign currencies. 
The vast majority of our fuel purchases, and therefore our currency exchange contracts, are denominated in US dollars. Compared to market 
exchange rates immediately prior to the EU referendum in June 2016, Sterling depreciated by approximately 15–20% against the US dollar by the 
balance sheet date. As a result, combined with the high volume of such contracts held (shown in the table on page 161), the net unrealised gains 
recognised in the year principally reflect the value of our forward currency purchase contract portfolio.
A material proportion of these contracts are not designated in hedge accounting relationships under IAS 39 and thus the gains on these 
contracts were recognised in the income statement.
Unrealised gains recognised in the hedge reserve principally reflect gains on the portion of our forward currency exchange contracts that are 
designated in effective hedge relationships in accordance with IAS 39.
Fair value measurement
 
– Commodity contracts fair value – The fair value of open commodity contracts that do not qualify for the own use exemption is calculated by 
reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date. As contracts are generally short-term, forward market price curves are available 
for the duration of the contracts. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price; the quoted price 
for financial liabilities is the current ask price. 
 
– Forward foreign currency exchange contracts fair value – The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is determined using 
forward currency exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. 
 
– Other financial contracts fair value – The fair value of other financial contracts that do not qualify for the own use exemption, is calculated by 
reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date. As contracts are generally short-term, forward market price curves are available 
for the duration of the contracts. 
The fair values of all derivative financial instruments are discounted to reflect the credit risk inherent within the instrument.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for the presence of embedded derivatives. Where contracts were found to contain embedded 
derivatives, they were considered to be closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract, and therefore do not require 
separate valuation from their host contracts.
We are required by IFRS to categorise our financial instruments in accordance with the following hierarchy in order to explain the basis on which 
their fair values have been determined:
Level 1 – fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
Level 2 – fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 – fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Categorisation within this fair value measurement hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement of the relevant asset or liability.
The fair value of commodity contracts, forward foreign currency exchange contracts and the contingent consideration in the OCGT acquisition 
(see note 5.1) are largely determined by comparison between forward market prices and the contract price; therefore these contracts are 
categorised as Level 2.
There have been no transfers during the year between Level 1, 2 or 3 category inputs.
SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
163
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.3 Other financial instruments
We hold a variety of other non-derivative financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, payables and receivables arising 
from our operations.
Accounting policy
Cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2), trade and other receivables (note 3.4), and trade and other payables (note 3.5) generally have short times to 
maturity. For this reason their carrying values, on the historical cost basis, approximate to their fair value. The Group’s borrowings (note 4.3) relate 
principally to amounts drawn down against term loans, the carrying amounts of which approximate their fair values by virtue of being floating 
rate instruments.
7.4 Hedge reserve
Changes in the fair value of our derivative commodity, financial and currency contracts are recognised in the hedge reserve, to the extent that 
they qualify as effective hedges under accounting rules. The cumulative gains and losses unwind and are released as the related contracts 
mature and we take delivery of the associated commodity or currency.
As described in note 7.2, all of our derivative contracts are entered into for the purpose of commercial hedging; however, not all of these contracts 
qualify as effective hedges under IAS 39. The changes in fair value of contracts that do not meet the definition of an IFRS effective hedge are 
recognised in the income statement. Managing our principal risks and uncertainties is about locking down exposures to moving prices and 
securing market level dark green and bark spreads for the future.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments used to address commodity price risk and foreign exchange risk as cash flow hedges. At the 
inception of the hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item is documented, along with its risk management 
objectives. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments used in 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items. Changes in fair value of contracts designated into 
such hedging relationships are recognised within the hedge reserve to the extent they are effective.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January
34.9
16.4
Gains/(losses) recognised:
– Commodity contracts
(18.3)
41.4
– Forward foreign currency exchange contracts
397.3
27.7
Released from equity:
– Commodity contracts
(35.7)
(49.2)
– Forward foreign currency exchange contracts
(13.2)
3.5
Related deferred tax, net (note 2.6)
(59.6)
(4.9)
At 31 December
305.4
34.9
The Group’s cash flow hedges relate to commodity contracts (principally commitments to sell power) and forward foreign currency exchange 
contracts. Amounts are recognised in the hedge reserve as the designated contracts are marked to market at each period end for the effective 
portion of the hedge, which is generally 100% of the relevant contract. Amounts held within the hedge reserve are then released as the related 
contract matures and the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss. For power sales contracts, this is when the underlying power is delivered. 
For currency contracts, this is when the associated foreign currency transaction is recognised. Further information about the Group’s accounting 
for financial instruments is included in note 7.2.
The expected release profile from equity of post-tax hedging gains and losses is as follows:
As at 31 December 2016
Within 1 year 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
>2 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Commodity contracts
(12.8)
(0.6)
0.1
(13.3)
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts
42.8
69.0
206.9
318.7
30.0
68.4
207.0
305.4
As at 31 December 2015
Within 1 year 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
>2 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Commodity contracts
27.9
4.8
(0.8)
31.9
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts
7.8
(10.0)
5.2
3.0
35.7
(5.2)
4.4
34.9
164
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
7.5 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are potential future outflows of cash that are dependent on a future event that is outside of our control. The amount and 
timing of any payment is uncertain, cannot be measured reliably, or is considered to be unlikely.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)
The UK Government intends to implement legislation to equalise the GMP, resulting in an increase in the value of GMP for males. This would 
correspondingly increase the defined benefit pension obligation of the Group (note 6.3). At present, the methodology for implementing the 
equalisation is uncertain and thus the impact cannot be reliably measured. As a result, no allowance has been made for GMP equalisation in 
the calculation of the defined benefit obligation within these consolidated financial statements.
Borrowings
In addition to the amount drawn down against the bank loans, certain members of the Group guarantee the obligations of a number of banks 
in respect of letters of credit issued by those banks to counterparties of the Group. As at 31 December 2016 the Group’s contingent liability in 
respect of letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility amounted to £57.9 million (2015: £37.9 million).
7.6 Commitments
We have a number of financial commitments (i.e. a contractual requirement to make a cash payment in the future) that are not recorded in our 
balance sheet as the contract is not yet due for delivery. Such commitments include contracts for the future purchase of coal and biomass, 
operating leases for land and buildings, contracts for the construction of assets and contracts for the provision of services.
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements
33.0
43.2
Future support contracts not provided in the financial statements
5.9
6.1
Future commitments to purchase fuel under fixed and variable priced contracts
5,194.4
4,739.0
The contractual maturity of the future commitments to purchase fuel are as follows:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Within one year
873.7
870.5
Within two to five years
2,773.0
2,440.7
After five years
1,547.7
1,427.8
5,194.4
4,739.0
Commitments to purchase fuel reflect long-term forward purchase contracts with a variety of international suppliers, primarily for the delivery of 
sustainable wood pellets for use in electricity production at Drax Power Station over the period from 2017–2027. To the extent these contracts 
relate to the purchase of wood pellets, they are not reflected elsewhere in our financial statements owing to application of the “own-use” 
exemption from fair value accounting to such contracts (see note 7.2). 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
As at 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Within one year
3.7
8.0
Within two to five years
10.8
8.1
After five years
5.2
7.0
19.7
23.1
SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
165
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
This section details reference information relevant to the accounts. Here we describe the general information about the Group (e.g. operations and 
registered office). We also set out the basis of preparation of the accounts and general accounting policies that are not specific to any one note.
8.1 General information
Drax Group plc (the Company) is incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act. The Company and its subsidiaries (together, 
the Group) have three principal activities:
 
– Electricity generation; 
 
– Electricity supply to business customers; and
 
– Manufacturing of sustainable compressed wood pellets for use in electricity production. 
The Group’s activities are principally based within the UK, with the wood pellet manufacturing activities situated in the US. The Group also 
operates in the UK domestic heat market.
The address of the Company’s registered office and principal establishment is Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH, United 
Kingdom. A full list of operating companies of the Group is disclosed in note 5 to the Company’s separate financial statements, which follow these 
consolidated financial statements.
8.2 Basis of preparation
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards
A number of new and amended standards became effective for the first time in 2016. The Group adopted the following from 1 January 2016:
IAS 27 (amended) – Separate Financial Statements – applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
Annual improvements to 2012–2014 Cycle – all amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 16 (amended) – Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 (amended) Intangible Assets – applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 1 (amended) – Presentation of Financial Statements – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 19 (amended) – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee contributions – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2015.
IFRS 11 (amended) – Joint Arrangements – applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
The adoption of these updates and amendments has not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new or amended standards and relevant interpretations, which have 
not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU – 
marked by *):
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 (including clarifications issued on 12 Aril 2016) – Revenue from Contracts with Customers – effective for annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16 (amended) – Leases – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.*
IFRS 10 (amended) – Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 (amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011) – effective 
date deferred indefinitely.*
IAS 12 (amended) – Income Taxes – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.*
IAS 7 (amended) – Statement of Cash Flows – effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.*
IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.*
IAS 40 (amended) – Investment Property – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
SECTION 8:
REFERENCE INFORMATION
166
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Following endorsement by the EU, the Group expects to adopt IFRS 9 in line with the 1 January 2018 effective date. The adoption of this standard 
is not expected to have a material impact on the recognition or measurement of the Group’s financial instruments. However, following adoption it 
is anticipated that more of the Group’s forward purchase contracts will in future qualify for hedge accounting under the new standard than 
under the existing standard. This will likely result in a greater proportion of unrealised gains and losses being recognised in the hedge reserve 
and an associated reduction in income statement volatility. 
The Group is in the process of completing a preliminary impact assessment for the adoption of IFRS 15, which is expected to be adopted in line 
with the effective date of 1 January 2018. Whilst further work is required, the Group expects to review and update its revenue recognition policies 
in light of the updated requirements. Based on the initial findings of this process, a material change to the quantum and timing of profitability is 
considered unlikely at this stage.
The Group has not yet concluded its initial impact assessment into the adoption of IFRS 16; however at this stage the standard is not expected 
to have a material impact on the recognition, measurement or presentation of amounts within the financial statements in respect of leases. 
The Group currently expects to adopt IFRS 16 in the period it becomes mandatory, subject to EU endorsement.
Adoption of the other standards in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
8.3 Accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below are considered to be general to the financial statements and not covered by a specific note.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. At each balance sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. 
Non-monetary items are not retranslated.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement within finance costs. 
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with a functional currency other than sterling are translated into sterling using published exchange 
rates at the reporting date. The income and expenditure of such operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the 
date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the retranslation of the operation’s net assets and its results for the 
year are recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
8.4 Related party transactions
A related party is either an individual or entity with control or significant influence over the Group, or a company that is linked to us by investment 
(such as an associated company or joint venture). Our primary related parties are our key management personnel.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors and Executive Committee members, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group, is 
set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. Further information about the remuneration 
of individual directors, together with the directors’ interests in the share capital of Drax Group plc, is provided in the audited part of the 
Remuneration Committee report.
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Salaries and short-term benefits
5,011
4,552
Aggregate amounts receivable under share-based incentive schemes
1,146
1,651
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes
44
33
6,201
6,236
Amounts included in the table above reflect the remuneration of the 10 (2015: 11) members of the Board and Executive Committee as described 
on pages 68 to 71, in addition to two former members of the Board and Executive Committee who resigned from the Board during 2016.
Amounts receivable under incentive schemes represents the expenses arising from share-based payments included in the income statement, 
determined based on the fair value of the related awards at the date of grant (note 6.2), as adjusted for non-market related vesting conditions.
There were no other transactions with directors for the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements.
SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION CONTINUED
FINANCIALS
167
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
As at 31 December
Notes
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries
5
706,894
701,728
Current assets
Amounts due from other Group companies
6,300
2,903
Cash at bank and in hand
668
571
6,968
3,474
Current liabilities
Amounts due to other Group companies
(12,586)
(10,220)
Net current liabilities
(5,618)
(6,746)
Net assets
701,276
694,982
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
6
46,951
46,936
Capital redemption reserve
1,502
1,502
Share premium account
424,244
424,201
Profit and loss account
228,579
222,343
Total equity shareholders’ funds
701,276
694,982
The Company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 of £12.1 million (2015: £52.0 million).
These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors:
Dorothy Thompson CBE
Chief Executive
15 February 2017
Will Gardiner
Chief Financial Officer
15 February 2017
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
168
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Share 
capital 
£000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£000
Share 
premium 
£000
Profit and 
loss account 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 January 2015
46,764
1,502
422,882
215,001
686,149
Share capital issued (note 6)
172
–
1,319
–
1,491
Profit and total comprehensive income for the year
–
–
–
51,986
51,986
Credited to equity for share-based payments
–
–
–
5,300
5,300
Equity dividends paid (note 8)
–
–
–
(49,944)
(49,944)
At 1 January 2016
46,936
1,502
424,201
222,343
694,982
Share capital issued (note 6)
15
–
43
–
58
Profit and total comprehensive income for the year
–
–
–
12,064
12,064
Credited to equity for share-based payments
–
–
–
5,152
5,152
Equity dividends paid (note 8)
–
–
–
(10,980)
(10,980)
At 31 December 2016
46,951
1,502
424,244
228,579
701,276
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FINANCIALS
169
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
1. Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 (FRS 100) issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC). 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (incorporating the Amendments to FRS 101 issued by the FRC in 
July 2015 and July 2016 and the amendments to Company law made by the Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2015).
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to presentation 
of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective and certain related party transactions. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the 
consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting policies adopted are summarised 
below, and have been consistently applied to both years presented.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
(A) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where relevant, provision for impairment.
(B) Financial instruments
Issued equity – Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of 
its liabilities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds. The share premium account records amounts by which the proceeds from issuing shares exceeds the nominal value of the shares 
issued unless merger relief criteria within the Companies Act (2006) are met, in which case the difference is recorded in retained earnings.
Cash and cash equivalents – Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
3. Critical accounting judgements
(A) Critical judgements in applying the Company’s accounting policies
The critical accounting judgements, to the extent they apply to the Company, are consistent with those of the Group described on page 117.
(B) Impairment of fixed asset investments
Determining whether the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been impaired requires estimates of the investment’s values in use. 
The methodology for calculation of value in use is consistent with that of the Group, as described on page 130.
4. Profit and loss account
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. 
The Company’s profit and loss account was approved by the Board on 15 February 2017. The profit attributable to the Company is disclosed 
as a footnote to the Company’s balance sheet on page 167.
The Company received dividend income from its subsidiary undertakings totalling £14.7 million in 2016 (2015: £54.5 million).
The Company has no employees other than the directors, whose remuneration was paid by a subsidiary undertaking and a proportion was 
recharged to the Company.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit services provided to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 was £20,000 (2015: £20,000).
5. Fixed asset investments
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Carrying amount:
At 1 January
701,728
692,272
Acquisition of Billington Bioenergy Limited
–
4,034
Capital contribution
5,166
5,422
At 31 December
706,894
701,728
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
170
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
5. Fixed asset investments continued
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
The capital contribution relates to the share-based payment charge associated with the Savings-Related Share Option Plan and Bonus Matching 
Plan schemes, which arises because the beneficiaries of the scheme are employed by subsidiary companies. For more information see note 6.2 
to the consolidated financial statements.
Full list of subsidiary undertakings
The table below lists the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2016:
Name and nature of business
Country of 
incorporation 
and registration
Type of 
share
Group 
effective 
shareholding
Drax Group plc
Ultimate parent (holding) company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Abergelli Power Limited
Development company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Amite BioEnergy LLC
Trading company, fuel supply
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Baton Rouge transit LLC
Trading company, fuel supply
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Billington Bioenergy Limited
Trading company, fuel supply
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
DBI O&M Company LLC
Non-trading company
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Drax Biomass Inc.
Holding company
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Drax Biomass Holdings Limited
Holding company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Biomass Holdings LLC
Holding company
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Drax Biomass International Holdings LLC
Holding company
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Drax Biomass (Immingham) Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Biomass Transit LLC
Holding company
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Drax CCS Limited
Holding company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Developments Limited (formerly Drax 
Biomass Developments Limited)
Holding company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Finance Limited
Holding company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Fuel Supply Limited
Trading company, fuel supply
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax GCo Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Limited by 
Guarantee
100%
Drax Generation (Selby) Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Group Holdings Limited
Holding company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Group Project Services Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Group Services Limited
Trading company, administration services
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Holdings Limited
Holding company
Cayman Islands
Ordinary
100%
Drax (International) Limited
Holding company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Ouse
Dormant company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Pension Trustees Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Power Limited
Trading company, power generation
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Haven Heat Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Haven Power Limited
Trading company, power retail
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Haven Power Nominees Limited
Non-trading company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Hirwaun Power Limited
Development company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Millbrook Power Limited
Development company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Morehouse BioEnergy LLC
Trading company, fuel supply
Delaware, USA
Common
100%
Progress Power Limited
Development company
England and Wales
Ordinary
100%
Drax Group plc directly holds 100% of the equity of Drax Group Holdings Limited. All other investments are held indirectly. 
FINANCIALS
171
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
5. Fixed asset investments continued
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation. All subsidiary undertakings incorporated in England and Wales have  
their registered office at Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH. The registered office for Drax Holdings Limited is c/o Intertrust 
Corporate Services (Cayman) Limited, 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-9005, Cayman Islands. The principal business address 
for all subsidiaries incorporated in the USA is 5 Concourse Parkway, Suite 3100, Atlanta, GA 30328.
All subsidiary undertakings have 31 December year ends except Abergelli Power Limited, Hirwaun Power Limited, Millbrook Power Limited and 
Progress Power limited, which have 31 March year ends.
Subsequent to the year end, but before the date these financial statements were approved, Drax Developments Limited acquired 100% of the 
issued equity of Opus Energy Group Limited as described in note 5.1 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition to those listed in the 
table above, as of 10 February 2017 the Company also indirectly holds 100% of the shareholding of Opus Energy Group Limited, Opus Energy 
Limited, Opus Energy (Corporate) Limited, Opus Gas Supply Limited, Opus Energy Resources Limited, Farmoor Energy Limited, Abbott Debt 
Recovery Limited and Donnington Energy Limited. All of the acquired subsidiaries have their registered office at Lambourne House,  
311–321 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 7JH.
6. Called-up share capital
As at 31 December
2016 
£000
2015 
£000
Authorised:
865,238,823 ordinary shares of 1116⁄29 pence each
99,950
99,950
Issued and fully paid:
2015 – 406,700,321 ordinary shares of 1116⁄29 pence each
46,951
46,936
46,951
46,936
The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2016 
(number)
2015 
(number)
At 1 January
406,317,162
404,821,561
Issued under employee share schemes
383,159
1,495,601
At 31 December
406,700,321
406,317,162
The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders 
have waived their rights to dividends.
Issued under employee share schemes
On 6 January a total of 30,081 shares were issued on early vesting of the Group’s Bonus Matching Plan by one individual whose employment 
had terminated and discretion was used to exercise the shares. On 29 February 335,856 shares were issued in satisfaction of shares vesting in 
accordance with the rules of the Group’s Bonus Matching Plan. Throughout May to December a total of 17,222 shares were issued in satisfaction 
of options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
7. Distributable reserves
Note 8 sets out the proposed final dividend of £11 million in respect of 2016.
The Company considers its distributable reserves to be comprised of the profit and loss account with a total value of £229 million. Accordingly 
the Company considers itself to have sufficient distributable profits from which to pay the current year final dividend. Based on a total dividend 
for 2016 of £11 million, the Company has sufficient distributable reserves to pay 20 years of dividend at the current level without generating 
further distributable profits.
The Company is dependent upon its subsidiaries for the provision of cash with which to make dividend payments. As shown in note 4.2 to the 
consolidated financial statements the Group has sufficient cash resources with which to meet the proposed dividend.
172
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
8. Dividends
Years ended 31 December
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares  
in issue at the record date):
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.1 pence per share paid on 7 October 2016 
(2015: 5.1 pence per share paid on 9 October 2015)
8.6
20.7
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 0.6 pence per share paid on 13 May 2016  
(2015: 7.2 pence per share paid on 15 May 2015)
2.4
29.2
11.0
49.9
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 0.4 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £1.8 million) payable on or before 12 May 2017. 
The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2016.
9. Contingent liabilities
The Company has provided unsecured guarantees to third parties in respect of contracts held by a subsidiary company. The guarantees have 
been issued for £nil consideration and the Company has not charged the subsidiary for the guarantees.
The Company has granted a charge over the assets of certain of its subsidiaries, in respect of the Group’s debt (detailed in note 4.3 to the 
consolidated financial statements), which is guaranteed and secured directly by each of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company that is party 
to the security arrangement. The Company itself is not a guarantor of the Group’s debt.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
173
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Key dates for 2017
At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2017 financial calendar:
Annual General Meeting
13 April
Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend
20 April
Record date for entitlement to the final dividend
21 April
Payment of final dividend
12 May
Financial half year end
30 June
Announcement of half year results
19 July
Financial year end
31 December
Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Company’s website as and when they become 
available.
Results announcements
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are available 
under “Regulatory news” within the Investor section on the Company’s website.
Share price
Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.drax.com. During London Stock Exchange 
trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price.
The table below provides an indication of the fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2016, and the graph provides an 
indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year.
Closing price on 31 December 2015
Low during the year (18 January 2016)
High during the year (30 and 31 December 2016) Closing price on 31 December 2016
244.4 pence
207.6 pence
377.9 pence
377.9 pence
200
1 January
2016
1 February
2016
1 March
2016
1 April
2016
1 May
2016
1 June
2016
1 July
2016
1 September
2016
1 October
2016
1 November
2016
1 August
2016
1 December
 2016
31 December 
2016
250
300
350
400
Share price 2016 (pence) 
Note:
The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
174
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED
Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and 
the closing price at 31 December 2016, was approximately £1,536 
million (2015: £993 million).
Financial reports
Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of 
publication and can be downloaded from our website. Printed copies 
of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at 
the registered office, by clicking on “Contact Us” on our website, 
or direct by e-mail to enquiries@drax.com
Drax shareholder queries
Drax’s share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited (“Equiniti”), 
who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for 
dividend payments.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query 
relating to their Drax shareholding, in particular queries regarding:
 
– transfer of shares; 
 
– change of name or address;
 
– lost share certificates; 
 
– lost or out-of-date dividend cheques; 
 
– payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society  
account; and 
 
– death of a registered shareholder. 
Equiniti can be contacted as follows:
 
– Call Equiniti on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open 
from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank 
Holidays); or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. 
 
– Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. 
When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to 
have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as 
well as the name and address in which the shares are held.
Online communications
Registering for online communications allows you to have more control 
over the administration of your shareholding. The registration process 
is easy via Equiniti’s secure website www.shareview.co.uk
Once registered with Shareview you are able to:
 
– elect how Drax communicates with you;
 
– amend some of your personal details; 
 
– amend the way you receive dividends; and
 
– buy or sell shares online.
Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you 
can no longer receive paper copies of documents. We are able to offer 
a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found 
on the Drax website at www.drax.com/investors/faq
Tax on dividends
In the 2015 Budget, the Chancellor announced changes in the way that 
dividends would be taxed in the future. Below is a brief summary of the 
guidance provided by HMRC. If you are in any doubt as to the impact on 
your personal circumstances, you are recommended to seek your own 
financial advice from a professional adviser authorised under the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
From April 2016, there was an income tax charge on dividends at the 
rate of 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers 
and 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
The long-standing system of tax credits attached to dividends was 
replaced with a new tax-free Dividend Allowance. This means that 
there is no tax to pay on the first £5,000 of dividend income, no matter 
what non-dividend income a shareholder may have. Dividends paid on 
shares held within pensions and ISAs will be unaffected, remaining 
tax-free.
Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend 
income between £5,001 and £10,000 will need to make a declaration 
(to HMRC) for the first time. Individuals with dividend income of more 
than £10,000 are already required to be in HMRC’s Self-Assessment 
regime. The impact on Share Incentive Plan participants receiving cash 
dividends on their plan shares align with those for Shareholders. 
Further information and updates on tax on dividends can be found 
on the HMRC website at www.gov.uk/tax-on-dividends/overview
As the Dividend Tax Credit will no longer be required it is expected 
that a dividend confirmation will still need to be sent to shareholders 
to replace the old “tax voucher”. The Company is currently considering 
whether to move to the practice of issuing just one dividend 
confirmation document towards the end of the tax year, irrespective 
of the number of cash payments made during the course of the year, 
rather than issuing a document each time a dividend is paid. 
Shareholders will be advised of the outcome in due course.
Beneficial owners and “information rights”
If your shares are registered in the name of a third party (i.e. an ISA 
provider or other nominee company) you may, if you wish, receive 
information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006. 
In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered 
holder, who will then nominate you. All communications by beneficial 
owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered 
holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax 
or Equiniti.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
175
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
ShareGift
ShareGift (registered charity No. 1052686) is an independent charity 
which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose 
charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more 
to sell than they are worth. There are no capital gains tax implications 
(i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to 
obtain income tax relief. Further information can be obtained directly 
from the charity at www.sharegift.org
Share frauds (“Boiler room scams”)
In recent years, many companies have become aware that their 
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices. It is 
often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence 
claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take 
over the Company. At the time of this report, the Company was not the 
subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches 
such as those outlined are usually made by unauthorised companies 
and individuals. Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into 
the Company. Below is the advice from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the “FCA”).
Beware of share fraud
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors 
into scams. They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless 
or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for 
upfront payment. While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell 
shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
How to avoid share fraud:
 
– Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
 
– Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and 
firm contacting you and then end the call. 
 
– Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to see if 
the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA. 
 
– Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details. 
 
– Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want to 
call it back. 
 
– Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact 
details on the Register or you are told they are out of date. 
 
– Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at  
www.fca.org.uk/scams 
 
– Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you 
will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
 
– Think about getting independent financial and professional advice 
before you hand over any money. 
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Report a scam
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share 
fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can find out 
more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact 
Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
176
Drax Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2016
Drax Group plc
Registered office and trading address
Drax Power Station
Selby
North Yorkshire YO8 8PH
Telephone +44 (0)1757 618381
Fax +44 (0)1757 612192
www.drax.com
Registration details
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 5562053
Company Secretary
David McCallum
Enquiry e-mail address
enquiries@drax.com
COMPANY INFORMATION
PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS  
AND SERVICE PROVIDERS
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP
Brokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP
Financial PR
Brunswick Group LLP
16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Remuneration advisers
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH
Solicitors
Slaughter and May LLP
One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED
Advantaged fuels
Fuel that gives a price advantage against standard bituminous coals. 
Such fuels include pond fines, off-specification coal and petcoke.
Ancillary services
Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply and 
demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable 
limits, for example Black Start contracts. They are described in 
Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Availability
Average percentage of time the units were available for generation.
Average achieved price
Power revenues divided by volume of net sales (includes 
imbalance charges).
Balancing mechanism
The sub-set of the market through which the system operator can  
call upon additional generation/consumption or reduce generation/
consumption through market participants’ bids and offers, in order 
to balance the system minute-by-minute.
Bark spread
The difference between the power price and the cost of biomass,  
net of renewable support.
Carbon price support mechanism (or carbon price floor or carbon tax)
A tax upon fossil fuels (including coal) used to generate electricity.  
It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the power station.
Contracts for difference (CfD)
A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity 
generation. The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators at  
a fixed price level known as the “strike price”. Generators will receive 
revenue from selling their electricity into the market as usual. However, 
when the market reference price is below the strike price they will also 
receive a top-up payment from suppliers for the additional amount. 
Conversely if the reference price is above the strike price, the generator 
must pay back the difference.
Dark green spread
The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and 
carbon, including CO2 allowances under the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support (CPS) Mechanism.
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS)
The Government department bringing together the responsibilities for 
business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy and climate 
change (formerly DECC). 
EBITDA
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised 
gains and losses on derivative contracts.
EU ETS
The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced across 
the EU to reduce emissions of CO2; the scheme is capable of being 
extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
GLOSSARY
The DRAX report and accounts are printed on Revive 100 Offset – a Carbon Balanced paper 
that has been produced from 100% post-consumer recycled fibre (FSC® Recycled certified), and 
awarded the EU Eco label. The carbon emissions associated with the paper’s production and 
distribution have been offset through the World Land Trust’s Carbon Balanced Paper scheme.
Feed-in tariff
A long-term contract set at a fixed level where variable payments are 
made to ensure the generator receives an agreed tariff. The feed-in 
tariff payment would be made in addition to the generator’s revenues 
from selling in the market.
Forced outage
Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages.
Forced outage rate
The capacity which is not available due to forced outages or 
restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical 
capacity, less planned outage capacity.
Grid charges
Includes transmission network use of system charges (TNUoS), 
balancing services use of system charges (BSUoS) and distribution 
use of system charges (DUoS).
IFRSs
International Financial Reporting Standards.
LECs
Levy Exemption Certificates. Evidence of CCL exempt electricity 
supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
Levy control framework
A control framework for BEIS (formerly DECC) levy-funded spending 
intended to make sure that BEIS achieves its fuel poverty, energy and 
climate change goals in a way that is consistent with economic 
recovery and minimising the impact on consumer bills.
Load factor
Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales.
Lost time injury rate (LTIR)
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time 
injuries/hours worked x 100,000. Lost time injuries are defined as 
occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more  
than 24 hours.
Net balancing mechanism
Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers in the balancing 
mechanism.
Net cash/(debt)
Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less 
overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
Net sales
The aggregate of net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts, power 
exchange trades and net balancing mechanism.
Net sales at notional balancing point (NBP)
Net sales at NBP is the volume of power sold to customers by our Retail 
business expressed at the NBP. The NBP reflects the volume of power 
sold before deduction of transmission and distribution losses incurred 
in transporting this power from the grid to the customer meter.
Planned outage
A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according 
to the plan set at the outset of the year.
Planned outage rate
The capacity not available due to planned outages expressed as 
a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity.
Power exchange trades
Power sales or purchases transacted on the APX UK power 
trading platform.
ROCs
A Renewable Obligation Certificate (“ROC”) is a certificate issued to an 
accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable 
sources. The Renewable Obligation (RO) is currently the main support 
scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK.
Summer
The calendar months April to September.
System operator
National Grid Electricity Transmission. Responsible for the coordination 
of electricity flows onto and over the transmission system, balancing 
generation supply and user demand.
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: (lost time 
injuries + worse than first aid injuries)/hours worked x 100,000.
UK NAP
UK National Allocation Plan.
Underlying financial measures
We report financial measures described as “underlying” such as profit 
after tax and earnings per share. Underlying measures are adjusted to 
exclude the impact of gains and losses on derivative contracts and the 
associated tax.
Winter
The calendar months October to March.
DRAX.COM
Drax Group plc 
Drax Power Station 
Selby 
North Yorkshire 
YO8 8PH
T +44 (0)1757 618381
