 
 
DRAX GROUP PLC 
 
Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board 
 
 
Preliminary 
 
The role of the Board of Drax Group plc (the “Company”), the parent company of the 
subsidiaries of the Company (the “Group”), is to promote the long-term sustainable success of 
the Group, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society.  
 
The Board should establish the Group’s purpose, values and strategy, and satisfy itself that 
these and its culture are aligned, provide oversight of the overall management of the Group’s 
businesses, to secure the effective management of relationships with the Group’s stakeholders, 
to set the strategic direction and aims of the Group, to set the framework within which its 
operating subsidiaries are to conduct the Group’s businesses, to ensure there is established 
and maintained for the Group an effective system of internal control. 
 
The following paragraphs are a statement of the matters reserved to the Board for its collective 
decision. Certain of the matters will be submitted to the Board following consideration and 
supported by recommendation respectively from the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees of the Board, according to the terms of reference of each of those Committees. 
 
This statement does not preclude: 
 
(a) 
the delegation of authority to a committee of the Board or to an individual director to 
approve  a matter within such limits as is set by the Board when it makes the decision to 
delegate (provided this is within the Company’s Articles of Association); 
(b) 
the Board from calling for reports and recommendations from time to time on any matter 
it considers of significance; or 
(c) 
amendment of this schedule from time to time as the Board may determine. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt the Executive Committee, or equivalent body from time to time 
which is chaired by the CEO shall determine the delegation of authorities below the levels 
stipulated in this Schedule of Matters. 
The Board however reserves the right to require any matter pertaining to the business of the 
Group to be discussed and considered by the Board. 
 
1 
Strategy and Management 
1.1 
Responsible for setting the purpose, values, strategy and culture of the Group. 
1.2 
The strategic development plan for the Group (including the appetite for risk): its 
production, approval and arrangements for its implementation. 
1.3 
Approval of business plans setting out the annual operating and capital expenditure 
budgets and any material changes to them. 
1.4 
Review of operational and financial performance in the light of the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective 
action is taken. 
 
 
1.5 
Extension of the Group’s activities into new business or geographic areas. 
1.6 
Any decision to cease to operate all or any material part of the Group’s business. 
 
2 
Structure and capital 
2.1 
Changes relating to the Group’s capital structure including reduction of capital, share 
issues (except under employee share plans), share buy backs and refinancing debt. 
2.2 
Significant changes to the Group’s corporate structure. 
2.3 
Significant changes to the Group’s management and control structure. 
2.4 
Any changes to the Company’s listing or its status as a plc. 
 
3 
Financial reporting and controls 
3.1 
Approval of the half-yearly report, any preliminary announcements of final results and 
any other periodic disclosures on the performance, prospects or results of the Group 
and any part thereof. 
3.2 
Approval of the annual report and accounts, including the corporate governance 
statement and remuneration report. 
3.3 
Approval of the dividend policy and any capital allocation policy (including buy backs). 
3.4 
Declaration of any interim dividend and recommendation of the final dividend. 
3.5 
Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices. 
3.6 
Approval of treasury policies, including foreign currency exposure and the use of 
financial derivatives. 
 
4 
Internal controls 
4.1 
Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management 
including: 
• 
receiving reports on, and reviewing the effectiveness of, the Group’s risk and 
control processes 
• 
undertaking an annual assessment of these processes 
• 
approving an appropriate statement for inclusion in the annual report 
 
5 
Contracts and Expenditure 
5.1 
Contracts which are material strategically or by reason of size and which are not entered 
into the by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company in the ordinary course of 
 
 
business. For the avoidance of doubt, any commitment, investment, outlay of funds 
exceeding £5m will be considered material and require prior approval of the Board.   
5.2 
Capital expenditure, contractual commitments and anticipated contractual income in 
the normal course of existing business operations (whether capital or operating costs 
or revenue) and the assumption of liabilities, incurred by any subsidiary of the Company 
which fall within any of the following paragraphs: 
Unless specifically referenced, activity in paragraphs 5.2.1 to 5.2.10 beyond 31st March 
2027 requires Board approval. 
5.2.1 
Non-biomass fuel or CO2 allowance purchase where either: 
(1) 
the duration of the agreement is longer than 5 years; or 
(2) 
the quantity of the commodity purchased in the agreement 
exceeds 3 million tonnes in aggregate. 
 
 
5.2.2        Biomass purchases or sales where : 
 
(1) 
the quantity of the commodity purchased or sold in the agreement 
exceeds 7.5 million tonnes 
 
5.2.3 
Wholesale electricity sales or purchases where either : 
         (1)     the duration of the agreement is longer than 5 years; or 
         (2)     the aggregate volume sold in the agreement exceeds 2.5TWh  
         per annum, or a total of 12.5TWh. 
 
5.2.4  
Customers electricity sales where either :  
 
 
  
 
(1) 
the committed supply period is longer than 5 years; or 
         (2) 
the aggregate volume sold in the agreement exceeds 10TWh. 
 
 
  5.2.5         Customers electricity purchases, where either : 
 
(1) 
the committed contractual period is longer than 5 years; or 
 
(2) 
for PPAs, the aggregate volume bought in the agreement 
exceeds 1TWh. 
 
5.2.6         Wholesale gas sales and purchases where either : 
(1)     the duration or supply period of the agreement is longer than 5 
years; or 
(2)     the aggregate value of the agreement exceeds £50m. 
 
5.2.7        Customers gas sales and purchases where either : 
 
 
(1) 
Customers gas sales where the committed supply period is longer 
than 5 years; or 
(2) 
the aggregate volume sold in the agreement exceeds 4 million 
therms. 
 
5.2.8 
Any agreement for the sales or purchase of Renewable Obligation 
Certificates (“ROCs”), EU Guarantees of Origin (‘GOOs’), Renewable Energy 
Guarantees of Origin (‘REGOs’) or other certificates in relation to trading 
renewable energy where the 
 
(1) 
the certificate purchasing period is longer than 5 years; or 
(2)  the number of such certificates exceeds 2 million ROCs per 
annum from any individual compliance period year, or a total of 5 
million ROCs; or  
(3)     the number of such certificates exceeds 10 million REGOs per 
annum from any individual compliance period year, or to a total of 
40 million REGOs; or 
(4)     the number of such certificates exceeds 3 million GoOs per annum 
up from any individual compliance period year, or a total of 5 
million GoOs. 
 
5.2.9 
Any agreement for transport of fuel where : 
 
(1)    the quantity of fuel to be transported exceeds 7.5 million tonnes.  
 
 
5.2.10 
Capital expenditure or other contractual commitments and anticipated 
contractual income not within paragraph 5.2.1, 5.2.2,  5.2.3, 5.2.4 5.2.5, 
5.2.6, 5.2.7, 5.2.8 or 5.2.9: 
(1)  for which provision has been made in the current Budget (which 
term includes a financial plan covering more than one year) 
approved by the Board and which are expected to result in 
aggregate expenditure or income in excess of £15m; 
(2) 
for which provision has been made in the current Budget 
approved by the Board where the contractual commitment or 
anticipated contractual income is expected to exceed the Budget 
provision by more than £5m; 
(3) 
for which no provision has been made by the current Budget 
approved by the Board and where the contractual commitment or 
anticipated contractual income is expected to exceed £5m; 
(4) 
asset disposals (including scrap disposals) where either the 
expected proceeds of sale or the carrying value of the asset at 
the point of disposal exceeds £15m; or where the disposal may 
result in a loss exceeding £5m. 
 
 
 
5.3 
Investments proposed to be made by any Group company: 
5.3.1   
the acquisition or disposal of any interest in  the voting shares of any 
company or the making of any takeover offer;   
5.3.2 
any investment in any joint venture company and the terms of any joint 
venture agreement, shareholders’ agreement or similar agreement 
governing the operation of any joint venture company: and 
5.3.3 
development costs for such investments (including legal and 
professional fees and costs of undertaking due diligence) for which no 
provision has been made by the current Budget approved by the Board 
of more than £3m. 
5.3.4 
whether in any new business venture; in projects evaluating new 
technologies (including any alternative fuels); in any territory outside the 
United Kingdom (each of the foregoing in this subsection whether under 
consideration individually OR together to require referral to the Board). 
5.4 
The Board may from time to time delegate authority to enter into such agreements 
subject to such limits and conditions as it may stipulate at the time of such delegation.  
5.5 
Activity in new tradeable instruments and commodities where the turnover or value 
exceeds £5m or where the activity extends beyond 31st March 2027. 
 
6 
Communication 
6.1 
Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding 
of objectives. 
6.2 
Approval of resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put forward to 
shareholders at a general meeting. 
6.3 
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars. 
6.4 
Approval of press releases concerning matters decided by the Board. 
6.5 
Consider the outcome of engagement with shareholders (including reports from Brokers 
and advisers). 
 
7 
Board membership and other appointments 
7.1 
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, following 
recommendations from the Nominations committee, and effective succession planning. 
7.2 
Appointments to the Board, following recommendations by the Nominations committee. 
7.3 
Selection of the Chair of the Board and the Chief Executive. 
7.4 
Appointment of the Senior Independent Director. 
 
 
7.5 
Membership and Chairship of Board committees. 
7.6 
Continuation in office of directors at the end of their term of office, when they are due 
to be re-elected by shareholders at the AGM and otherwise as appropriate. 
7.7 
Continuation in office of any director at any time, including the suspension or 
termination of service of an executive director as an employee of the company, subject 
to the law and their service contract. 
7.8 
Appointment or removal of the Company Secretary. 
7.9 
Appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor to be put to shareholders 
for approval, following the recommendation of the Audit Committee. 
7.10 
Authorising appointments to boards of subsidiaries. 
7.11 
Approval of Board Diversity Policy 
 
8 
Remuneration and Pension arrangements 
8.1 
Determining the remuneration policy for the directors, senior management and 
employees. 
8.2 
Determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors, subject to the articles of 
association and shareholder approval as appropriate. 
8.3 
The introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing share plans, 
to be put to shareholders for approval. 
8.4 
Major changes to the rules of the Group’s pension schemes, or changes of trustees or 
changes in the fund management arrangements. 
 
9 
Delegation of Authority 
9.1 
The division of responsibilities between the Chair, the Chief Executive and other 
executive directors. 
9.2 
Approval of terms of reference of Board committees. 
9.3 
Receiving reports from Board committees on their activities. 
 
10 
Corporate governance matters 
10.1 
Undertake a formal and rigorous review periodically of its own performance, that of its 
committees and individual directors. 
10.2 
Determine the independence of directors and consider any areas for potential or actual 
conflicts of interest. 
 
 
10.3 
Understand the views of stakeholders by conducting appropriate engagement and 
consider such views and the interests of stakeholders in decision-making (including 
employees and others identified from time to time in reports to the Board on the Group’s 
key stakeholders). 
10.4 
Review of the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements. 
10.5 
Approve procedures for the disclosure of inside information. 
 
11 
Policies 
11.1 
Approval of policies, material to the business conduct, affairs and reputation of the 
Group including: 
• 
Health and Safety Policy 
• 
Environmental policy 
• 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption  
• 
Whistleblowing (Speak Up) 
• 
Political Engagement 
• 
Share dealing and inside information 
 
 
12 
Other 
12.1 
The making of political donations. 
12.2 
Approval of the appointment of the Group’s principal professional advisers. 
12.3 
Prosecution, defence or settlement of litigation where the potential liability exceeds £5m 
or being otherwise material to the interests of the Group. 
12.4 
 This schedule of matters reserved to the Board. 
12.5 
An annual review of the Group’s main insurance policies including the Directors’ and 
Officers’ insurance policy 
In addition, the Board will receive reports and recommendations from time to time on any matter 
which it considers significant to the Group.   
 
Adopted by the Board on 4 December 2020 
