Updating on ambitions for pellet plants, biomass sales and BECCS - Drax US



Pellet Sales
Careers
Resources
Contact Us

Pellet Sales
We believe investing in our people goes hand-in-hand with enabling the green energy transformation and positive future growth.
Careers
Current Vacancies
Career FAQs

The jobs and careers supporting the UK’s net zero future >
Careers
We believe investing in our people goes hand-in-hand with enabling the green energy transformation and positive future growth.
Careers
Current Vacancies
Career FAQs

Resources
Information about our business, partnerships and campaigns, as well as photos, graphics and multimedia assets for journalists, and educational materials for schools.
Resources
Campaigns and Trade Organisations
Educational Resources
Video
Graphics
Photos
Reports and Factsheets
Bioenergy carbon capture usage and storage (CCUS / BECCS)
Drax frequently asked questions (FAQs)
Economic and social impact of Drax [reports]
Energy and climate policy
Forests and biomass
Transport

Contact Us
Carbon capture
Sustainable business
Sustainable bioenergy
Electrification
Power generation
Investors
Opinion
Annual report

What We Do
Sustainability
News
Investors
About Us
Carbon Removals
US


What We Do
We’re committed to enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future through engineering, technology and innovation.
Carbon Removals
What is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS)?
Carbon negative by 2030
Carbon Removals by Drax
US BECCS
Coalition for Negative Emissions
Biomass
What is biomass?
The role biomass plays
Where does biomass come from?
Our biomass supply chain
Pellet Sales
North America Operations
Community

Carbon removals is a global need. The U.S. is making it possible >
Sustainability
We’re building for a sustainable future in how we source our biomass, generate energy, remove carbon dioxide and function as a business.
Our Approach
ESG Ratings
ESG data supplement
Sustainable Bioenergy
Catchment Area Analyses
Independent Advisory Board on Sustainable Biomass
Responsible Sourcing (policy)
Appendix to Responsible Sourcing
Certifications
Sourcing Sustainable Biomass
Partnerships
The Biomass Carbon Calculator
ForestScope
Carbon Emissions
Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures
Towards Carbon Negative
Environmental impact
Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Ethics and Integrity
People, Culture, and Values
Positive Social Impact

Sustainable Bioenergy >
News
Read our carbon capture, sustainable bioenergy and power generation stories, as well as thinking from Drax’s leaders and business updates.
Stories
Opinion
Financial News
Press Releases
Media Contacts

A statement from Drax Group CEO, Will Gardiner on Drax’s biomass sourcing >
About Us
Drax Group’s ambition is to become a carbon negative business by 2030, through innovative greenhouse gas removal technology.
Corporate Governance
North America Leadership Team
Board & Committees
Compliance and Policies
Our Vision and Values
REMIT
Our History
Our Projects
U.S. BECCS
Future Positive in Alabama
Future Positive in Arkansas
Future Positive in Louisiana
Future Positive in Mississippi

The world’s leading sustainable biomass generation and supply business >
Search

United States
Drax Global
United Kingdom
Japan
Canada

What We Do
Carbon Removals
What is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS)?
Carbon negative by 2030
Carbon Removals by Drax
US BECCS
Coalition for Negative Emissions
Biomass
What is biomass?
The role biomass plays
Where does biomass come from?
Our biomass supply chain
Pellet Sales
North America Operations
Community

Sustainability
Our Approach
ESG Ratings
ESG data supplement
Sustainable Bioenergy
Catchment Area Analyses
Independent Advisory Board on Sustainable Biomass
Responsible Sourcing (policy)
Appendix to Responsible Sourcing
Certifications
Sourcing Sustainable Biomass
Partnerships
The Biomass Carbon Calculator
ForestScope
Carbon Emissions
Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures
Towards Carbon Negative
Environmental impact
Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Ethics and Integrity
People, Culture, and Values
Positive Social Impact

News
Stories
Opinion
Financial News
Press Releases
Media Contacts

Investors
About Us
Corporate Governance
North America Leadership Team
Board & Committees
Compliance and Policies
Our Vision and Values
REMIT
Our History
Our Projects
U.S. BECCS
Future Positive in Alabama
Future Positive in Arkansas
Future Positive in Louisiana
Future Positive in Mississippi

Carbon Removals
Pellet Sales
Careers
Careers
Current Vacancies
Career FAQs

Resources
Resources
Campaigns and Trade Organisations
Educational Resources
Video
Graphics
Photos
Reports and Factsheets
Bioenergy carbon capture usage and storage (CCUS / BECCS)
Drax frequently asked questions (FAQs)
Economic and social impact of Drax [reports]
Energy and climate policy
Forests and biomass
Transport

Contact Us

Updating on ambitions for pellet plants, biomass sales and BECCS
Capital Markets Day
1 December 2021
Investors
Highlights
New targets for pellet production and biomass sales
Biomass pellet production – targeting 8Mt pa by 2030 (currently c.4Mt)
Biomass pellet sales to third parties – targeting 4Mt pa by 2030 (currently c.2Mt)
Continued progress with UK BECCS
(1)
and biomass cost reduction
BECCS at Drax Power Station – targeting 8Mt pa of negative CO
2
emissions by 2030
Biomass cost reduction – continuing to target biomass production cost of $100/t
(2)
£3bn of investment in opportunities for growth 2022 to 2030
Pellet production, UK BECCS and pumped storage
Self-funded and significantly below 2x net debt to Adjusted EBITDA
(3)
in 2030
Development of additional investment opportunities for new-build BECCS
Targeting 4Mt pa of negative CO
2
emissions outside of UK by 2030
Targeting returns significantly in excess of the Group’s cost of capital
Will Gardiner, Drax Group CEO, said:
Will Gardiner, CEO, Drax Group. Click to view/download.
“Drax has made excellent progress during 2021 providing a firm foundation for further growth. We have advanced our BECCS project – a vital part of the East Coast Cluster that was recently selected to be one of the UK’s two priority CCS projects. And we’re now setting out a strategy to take the business forward, enabling Drax to make an even greater contribution to global efforts to reach net zero.
“We believe Drax can deliver growth and become a global leader in sustainable biomass and negative emissions and a UK leader in dispatchable, renewable generation. We aim to double our sustainable biomass production capacity by 2030 – creating opportunities to double our sales to Asia and Europe, where demand for biomass is increasing as countries transition away from coal.
“As a global leader in negative emissions, we’re going to scale up our ambitions internationally. Drax is now targeting 12 million tonnes of carbon removals each year by 2030 by using bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS). This includes the negative emissions we can deliver at Drax Power Station in the UK and through potential new-build BECCS projects in North America and Europe, supporting a new sector of the economy, which will create jobs, clean growth and exciting export opportunities.”
Capital Markets Day
Drax is today hosting a Capital Markets Day for investors and analysts.
Will Gardiner and members of his leadership team will update on the Group’s strategy, market opportunities and development projects. The day will outline the significant opportunities Drax sees to grow its biomass supply chain, biomass sales and BECCS, as well as long-term dispatchable generation from biomass and pumped storage.
Purpose and ambition
The Group’s purpose is to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future and its ambition is to be a carbon negative company by 2030. The Group aims to realise its purpose and ambition through three strategic pillars, which are closely aligned with global energy policies, which increasingly recognise the unique role that biomass can play in the fight against climate change.
Strategic pillars
To be a global leader in sustainable biomass pellets
To be a global leader in negative emissions
To be a leader in UK dispatchable, renewable generation
The development of these pillars remains underpinned by the Group’s continued focus on safety, sustainability and biomass cost reduction.
A Global leader in sustainable biomass pellets
Drax believes that the global market for sustainable biomass will grow significantly, creating opportunities for sales to third parties in Asia and Europe, BECCS, generation and other long-term uses of biomass. Delivery of these opportunities is supported by the expansion of the Group’s biomass pellet production capacity.
The Group has 13 operational pellet plants with nameplate capacity of c.4Mt, plus a further two plants currently commissioning and other developments/expansions which will increase this to c.5Mt once complete.
Drax is targeting 8Mt of production capacity by 2030, which will require the development of over 3Mt of new biomass pellet production capacity. To deliver this additional capacity Drax is developing a pipeline of organic projects, principally focused on North America. Drax expects to take a final investment decision on 0.5-1Mt of new capacity in 2022, targeting returns significantly in excess of the Group’s cost of capital.
Underpinned by this expanded production capacity, Drax aims to double sales of biomass to third parties to 4Mt pa by 2030, developing its market presence in Asia and Europe, facilitated by the creation of new business development teams in Tokyo and London.
Drax is a major producer, supplier and user of biomass, active in all areas of the supply chain with long-term relationships and almost 20 years of experience in biomass operations. The Group’s innovation in coal-to-biomass engineering, supply chain management and leadership in negative emissions can be deployed alongside its large, reliable and sustainable supply chain to support customer decarbonisation journeys with long-term partnerships.
Drax expects to sell all the biomass it produces, based on an appropriate market price, typically with long-term index-linked contracts.
Continued focus on cost reduction
In 2018 the Group’s biomass production cost was $166/t
(2)
. At the H1 2021 results, through a combination of fibre sourcing, operational improvements and capacity expansion (including the acquisition of Pinnacle Renewable Energy Inc), the production cost had reduced to $141/t
(2)
. Drax’s aims to use the combined expertise of Drax and Pinnacle to apply learnings and cost savings across its portfolio and continues to target $100/t
(2)
(£50/MWh equivalent
(4)
) by 2027.
A Global leader in negative emissions
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(5)
and the Coalition for Negative Emissions
(6)
have both outlined a clear role for BECCS in delivering the negative emissions required to limit global warming to 1.5
o
C above pre-industrial levels and to achieve net zero by 2050, identifying a requirement of between 2bn and 7bn tonnes of negative emissions globally from BECCS.
Separately, the UK Government has recently published its Net Zero Strategy and Biomass Policy Statement reaffirming the established international scientific consensus that sustainable biomass is renewable and that it will play a critical role in helping the UK achieve its climate targets. It also signposted an ambition for at least 5Mt pa of negative emissions from BECCS and Direct Air Capture by 2030, 23Mt pa by 2035 and up to 81Mt pa by 2050. The reports commit the Government to the development during 2022 of a financial model to support BECCS to meet these requirements.
Subject to the right regulatory environment, Drax plans to transform Drax Power Station into the world’s biggest carbon capture project using BECCS to permanently remove 8Mt of CO
2
emissions from the atmosphere each year by 2030. The project is well developed, the technology is proven and an investment decision could be taken in 2024 with the first BECCS unit operational in 2027 and a second in 2030, subject to the right investment framework.
The Group aims to build on this innovation with a new target to deliver 4Mt of negative CO
2
emissions pa from new-build BECCS outside of the UK by 2030 and is currently developing models for North American and European markets.
A UK leader in dispatchable, renewable generation
The UK’s plans to achieve net zero by 2050 will require the electrification of heating and transport systems, resulting in a significant increase in demand for electricity. Drax believes that over 80% of this could be met by intermittent renewable and inflexible low-carbon energy sources – wind, solar and nuclear. However, this will only be possible if the remaining power sources can provide the dispatchable power and non-generation system support services the power system requires to ensure security of supply and to limit the cost to the consumer.
Long-term biomass generation and pumped storage hydro can provide these increasingly important services. Drax Power Station is the UK’s largest source of renewable power by output and the largest dispatchable plant. The Group is continuing to develop a lower cost operating model for this asset, supported by a reduction in fixed costs associated with the end of coal operations.
Drax is also developing an option for new pumped storage – Cruachan II – which could take a final investment decision in 2024 and be operational by 2030, providing an additional 600MW of dispatchable long-duration storage to the power system.
In its Smart Systems and Flexibility plan (July 2021), the UK Government described long-duration storage technologies as essential for achieving net zero and has committed to take actions to de-risk investment for large-scale and long-duration storage.
Capital allocation and dividend
Strategic capital investment (3Mt of new biomass pellet production capacity, BECCS at Drax Power Station and Cruachan II) is expected to be in the region of £3bn between 2022 and 2030, backed by long-term contracted cashflows and targeting high single-digit returns and above.
No final investment decision has been taken on any of these projects and both BECCS and Cruachan II remain subject to further clarity on regulatory and funding mechanisms.
The Group believes these investments can be self-funded through strong cash generation over the period with net debt to Adjusted EBITDA significantly below 2x at the end of 2030, providing flexibility to support further investment, such as new-build BECCS as these options develop.
Drax remains committed to the capital allocation policy established in 2017, noting that average annual dividend growth was around 10% in the last 5-years.
Webcast and presentation material
The event will be webcast from 10.00am and the material made available on the Group’s website from 7:00am. Joining instructions for the webcast and presentation are included in the links below.
https://secure.emincote.com/client/drax/drax016
Notes
:
(1) BioEnergy Carbon Capture and Storage.
(2) Free on Board – cost of raw fibre, processing into a wood pellet, delivery to Drax port facilities in US and Canada, loading to vessel for shipment and overheads.
(3) Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements.
(4) From c.£75/MWh in 2018 to c.£50/MWh, assuming a constant FX rate of $1.45/£.
(5) Coalition for Negative Emissions (June 2021).
(6) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (August 2021).
Enquiries:
Drax Investor Relations: Mark Strafford
+44 (0) 7730 763 949
Media:
Drax External Communications: Ali Lewis
+44 (0) 7712 670 888
Website:
www.drax.com/us
Forward Looking Statements
This announcement may contain certain statements, expectations, statistics, projections and other information that are or may be forward-looking. The accuracy and completeness of all such statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans, investments, beliefs and objectives for the management of future operations of Drax Group plc (“Drax”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), including in respect of Pinnacle Renewable Energy Inc. (“Pinnacle”), together forming the enlarged business, are not warranted or guaranteed. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the future. Although Drax believes that the statements, expectations, statistics and projections and other information reflected in such statements are reasonable, they reflect the Company’s current view and beliefs and no assurance can be given that they will prove to be correct. Such events and statements involve significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results and outcomes may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Group, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These include, but are not limited to, factors such as: future revenues being lower than expected; increasing competitive pressures in the industry; and/or general economic conditions or conditions affecting the relevant industry, both domestically and internationally, being less favourable than expected; change in the policy of key stakeholders, including governments or partners or failure or delay in securing the required financial, regulatory and political support to progress the development of Drax and its operations. We do not intend to publicly update or revise these projections or other forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, and we do not assume any responsibility for doing so.
END



Share




Name:
Email:
Comment:
Sign up for updates from Drax
Sign up to receive our email newsletter to receive a regular roundup of Drax Group news and announcements
Enter your email
*
*Required
Select a country
*
United Kingdom
United States of America
Canada
Japan
Aaland Islands
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua And Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote D'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curacao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Falkland Islands
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern Territories
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard and Mc Donald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Jersey  (Channel Islands)
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Moldova, Republic of
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Korea
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Republic of Kosovo
Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa (Independent)
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Helena
St. Pierre and Miquelon
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkiye
Turkmenistan
Turks & Caicos Islands
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
Uruguay
USA Minor Outlying Islands
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City State (Holy See)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (British)
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
Wallis and Futuna Islands
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
*Required
Next
Choose your interests
Choose which Drax locations you’d like updates from:
Drax location of interest
*
All locations
UK (All)
Yorkshire & Humber
Scotland
US (All)
Alabama
Arkansas
California
Louisiana
Mississippi
Texas
Canada (All)
Alberta
British Columbia
Quebec
Japan
*Required
Select the specific Drax news you’d like to hear about:

All News



Sustainability News



Corporate News



Community News



Financial News


*Required

Previous

Next
Marketing Permissions
Select all the ways you would like to hear from Drax:


Email



*Required
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
Privacy Policy
and
Terms of Service
apply.
Learn about our privacy practices
.

Previous

Thank you for subscribing!
Welcome to Friends of Drax.
Error
Return

Contact us

Contact us

Accessibility
Compliance
Disclaimer
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy notices
Sitemap
REMIT
Terms of use
Website terms and conditions
Drax US

Drax Canada

Drax Global






