Purchase Order — Terms and Conditions [North America] - Drax Canada



Pellet Sales
Careers
Resources
Contact Us

Pellet Sales
We believe investing in our people goes hand-in-hand with enabling the green energy transformation and positive future growth.
Careers
Current Vacancies
Career FAQs

The jobs and careers supporting the UK’s net zero future >
Careers
We believe investing in our people goes hand-in-hand with enabling the green energy transformation and positive future growth.
Careers
Current Vacancies
Career FAQs

Resources
Information about our business, partnerships and campaigns, as well as photos, graphics and multimedia assets for journalists, and educational materials for schools.
Resources
Campaigns and Trade Organisations
Educational Resources
Video
Graphics
Photos
Reports and Factsheets
Bioenergy carbon capture usage and storage (CCUS / BECCS)
Drax frequently asked questions (FAQs)
Economic and social impact of Drax [reports]
Energy and climate policy
Forests and biomass
Transport

Contact Us
Carbon capture
Sustainable business
Sustainable bioenergy
Electrification
Power generation
Investors
Opinion
Annual report

What We Do
Sustainability
News
Investors
About Us
Carbon Removals
Canada


What We Do
We’re committed to enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future through engineering, technology and innovation.
Carbon Capture
What is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS)?
Carbon negative by 2030
Coalition for Negative Emissions
Biomass
What is biomass?
The role biomass plays
Where does biomass come from?
North America Operations
Community
Pellet Sales

The key to sustainable forests? Thinking globally and managing locally >
Sustainability
We’re building for a sustainable future in how we source our biomass, generate energy, remove carbon dioxide and function as a business.
Our Approach
ESG Ratings
ESG data supplement
Sustainable Bioenergy
Catchment Area Analyses
Independent Advisory Board on Sustainable Biomass
Responsible Sourcing (policy)
Appendix to Responsible Sourcing
Certifications
Sourcing Sustainable Biomass
The Biomass Carbon Calculator
ForestScope
Carbon Emissions
Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures
Towards Carbon Negative
Environmental impact
Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Ethics and Integrity
People, Culture, and Values
Positive Social Impact

Sustainable Bioenergy >
News
Read our carbon capture, sustainable bioenergy and power generation stories, as well as thinking from Drax’s leaders and business updates.
Stories
Opinion
Financial News
Press Releases
Media Contacts

A statement from Drax Group CEO, Will Gardiner on Drax’s biomass sourcing >
About Us
Drax Group’s ambition is to become a carbon negative business by 2030, through innovative greenhouse gas removal technology.
Corporate Governance
North America Leadership Team
Board & Committees
Compliance and Policies
Our Vision and Values
REMIT
Our History
Our Projects
BECCS and negative emissions

The world’s leading sustainable biomass generation and supply business >
Search

Canada
Drax Global
United Kingdom
Japan
United States

What We Do
Carbon Capture
What is bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS)?
Carbon negative by 2030
Coalition for Negative Emissions
Biomass
What is biomass?
The role biomass plays
Where does biomass come from?
North America Operations
Community
Pellet Sales

Sustainability
Our Approach
ESG Ratings
ESG data supplement
Sustainable Bioenergy
Catchment Area Analyses
Independent Advisory Board on Sustainable Biomass
Responsible Sourcing (policy)
Appendix to Responsible Sourcing
Certifications
Sourcing Sustainable Biomass
The Biomass Carbon Calculator
ForestScope
Carbon Emissions
Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures
Towards Carbon Negative
Environmental impact
Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Ethics and Integrity
People, Culture, and Values
Positive Social Impact

News
Stories
Opinion
Financial News
Press Releases
Media Contacts

Investors
About Us
Corporate Governance
North America Leadership Team
Board & Committees
Compliance and Policies
Our Vision and Values
REMIT
Our History
Our Projects
BECCS and negative emissions

Carbon Removals
Pellet Sales
Careers
Careers
Current Vacancies
Career FAQs

Resources
Resources
Campaigns and Trade Organisations
Educational Resources
Video
Graphics
Photos
Reports and Factsheets
Bioenergy carbon capture usage and storage (CCUS / BECCS)
Drax frequently asked questions (FAQs)
Economic and social impact of Drax [reports]
Energy and climate policy
Forests and biomass
Transport

Contact Us

Purchase Order — Terms and Conditions [North America]
Purchase Order — Terms and Conditions
ACCEPTANCE/AGREEMENT.
This purchase order is for the purchase of goods, services, or goods and services described on the face of this document (collectively, “Goods”) and is issued by Drax Biomass Inc., or its affiliates (“Buyer”) as identified on the purchase order. This purchase order is deemed accepted, and becomes a binding contract, governed by the terms herein, when Supplier commences work on the Goods, ships the Goods and/or provides the Goods described in the purchase order. Any acceptance of this purchase order is limited to the express acceptance of the terms contained herein. Buyer expressly rejects any additional or different terms contained in any of Supplier’s forms or documents, including but not limited to Supplier’s acceptance form, invoice, or similar document. Buyer objects to all additions, exceptions, or changes to these terms, whether contained in any printed form of Supplier or elsewhere, unless approved by the Buyer writing. The language, terms and conditions of this Purchase Order shall prevail over any conflicting language, term or condition contained in any document provided by Supplier, unless the Buyer and Supplier enter into a definitive agreement, in such case the agreement’s terms and conditions shall prevail.
PRICE.
This purchase order shall not be filled at a higher price than shown on the purchase order. Prices shall be inclusive of all costs, including, but not limited to, custom duties, taxes (including sales, use, excise and property taxes), shipping, packaging, boxing, crafting, labeling, storage, insurance and similar charges.
PRICE WARRANTY.
Supplier warrants that the prices for the Goods sold to Buyer hereunder are as favorable as those currently offered to its customers for the same or similar articles in similar quantities in compliance with all pricing laws and regulations. If Supplier reduces its price for such Goods during the term of this purchase order, Supplier agrees to reduce the price hereof correspondingly.
CHANGES.
Buyer may at any time, in writing, direct or authorize Supplier to make changes or modifications within the general scope of this purchase order. If such changes or modifications necessitate an increase or decrease in the amount due or in the time required for performance, such matters shall be agreed upon in writing prior to proceeding with the change. No payment shall be made for any change or modification not directed and authorized prior to the change.
SUBSTITUTION.
No substitution or modification of any kind may be made without Buyer’s prior written consent.
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR/WORK PRODUCT.
Supplier is an independent contractor with respect to any Goods provided under this purchase order, and shall have complete control of its employees engaged in the performance of the Goods. Such employees shall not be considered employees, servants or agents of Buyer in any respect. Any and all documents/materials created for Buyer as part of any Goods outlined in this purchase order shall become the property of Buyer, and Supplier assigns to Buyer all rights, title and interest in and to such documents/materials, including all intellectual property rights, copyrights and/or patents contained therein.
SCHEDULE.
Time is of the essence for this purchase order. If delivery of items or rendering of Goods is not completed in accordance with the schedule, Buyer reserves the right, in addition to its other rights and remedies, to immediately terminate this purchase order without liability.
SHIPMENT.
Delivery shall be F.O.B. point of destination, and title shall pass to Buyer upon delivery to such location and acceptance of such shipment as discussed in Paragraph 11. Risk of damage or loss following shipment but prior to acceptance by Buyer shall be the responsibility of Supplier.
FORCE MAJEURE.
Either party may delay delivery or acceptance occasioned by causes beyond its control, such as government action or failure of the government to act where such action is required, strike or other labor dispute, fire, act of God or unusually severe weather.
WARRANTY.
Supplier expressly warrants that all Goods furnished shall be in accordance with applicable specifications, and appropriate professional standards, shall be free from defects in materials and workmanship, and shall be fit for the purposes intended by Buyer. Supplier warrants that it has clear title to the Goods and that such Goods shall be delivered free of liens or encumbrances. The warranties herein shall: (i) be in addition to any warranties of broader scope and service warranties and guarantees given by the supplier or manufacturer; (ii) survive inspection, test, acceptance, and payment; and (iii) extend to Buyer’s successors, assigns and customers, and to the users of the Goods. Supplier agrees to promptly replace or correct defects in or replace nonconforming Goods.
INSPECTION.
All Goods purchased are subject to inspection, test and approval at destination by Buyer, notwithstanding prior payments or inspections at the source. Buyer, without limiting its other rights, may reject or return any Goods which contain defective materials or workmanship, do not conform to the specifications, are not as ordered or are not fit for the purpose intended. Acceptance of any Goods shall not be deemed to alter or affect the obligations of Supplier or the rights of Buyer under any other term or condition of this purchase order. Title shall be deemed transferred to Buyer at delivery point after inspection and acceptance.
INVOICING.
Invoices shall be submitted on a monthly basis, as soon as practicable after the end of such month, to AP.Invoice @draxbiomass.com or  Drax Biomass Inc., 1500 N. 19
th
St., Suite 501, Monroe, Louisiana 71201. Undisputed invoices shall be paid within forty-five (45) days from receipt of invoice.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
Supplier warrants that all Goods supplied hereunder will have been produced in compliance with, and Supplier agrees to abide by, all applicable laws, legislation, rules, regulations, and governmental requirements of the United States and of any jurisdiction in or from which Supplier is providing the Goods, including all anti-corruption (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act), environmental, health, safety, non-discrimination, wage and hour and other workplace laws and regulations. Contractor is required to carry out their business in accordance with the Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct (“the Code”), which is located at
Supplier Code of Conduct
. To the extent the Code conflicts with this Agreement, this Agreement will control.
COMPLIANCE WITH SAFETY PROCEDURES.
Any personnel engaged in providing Goods shall be fully qualified, and shall be authorized, where required, under applicable laws, to perform the Goods assigned to them, and have all necessary licenses, permits, registration certificates, or other approvals as may be required by applicable law or regulation. Supplier shall fully comply with Buyer’s safety policies and procedures when at Buyer’s location(s).
INSURANCE.
Supplier shall maintain such general liability insurance, including product liability, contractual liability, completed operations, contractor’s liability and protective liability, automotive liability insurance (including non-owned automotive liability), worker’s compensation and employer’s liability insurance that is consistent with industry standards and will adequately protect Supplier against all damages, liabilities, claims, costs and expenses. Supplier agrees to submit certificates of insurance evidencing its insurance coverage when requested by Buyer. All insurance coverage provided hereunder shall be primary insurance with respect to Buyer’s obligations, and shall not be considered to be contributing insurance with any of Buyer’s policies of insurance.
INDEMNITY.
Supplier shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer, and its direct or indirect parent company, subsidiaries, affiliates, and their respective directors, officers, shareholders, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all claims, actions, suits, proceedings, losses, liabilities, penalties, damages, costs or expenses (including attorney’s fees and disbursements) of any kind whatsoever resulting from: (i) injuries to or death of any and all individuals or damage to, loss, and/or destruction of property, including, without limitation, property of Buyer, arising out of or connected in any manner with the performance hereunder, the delivery or Supplier’s installation of the Goods or any defect in the Goods; (ii) third party claims of any kind, whether based upon negligence, strict liability or otherwise, arising out of or connected in any manner to Supplier’s acts or omissions in breach of this purchase order; or (iii) Supplier’s failure to comply with any terms of this purchase order.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.
Supplier expressly warrants that there has been no violation, misappropriation or infringement of any trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright, or other third party property right (including, without limitation, any violation of a third party license) in any way connected with or arising out of the activities contemplated in this purchase order. No license, right to use or other intellectual property rights contained in any information provided by Buyer to Supplier are or shall be deemed to be granted to Supplier.
CONFIDENTIALITY.
Supplier shall consider all information furnished pursuant to this purchase order, or developed or obtained by Supplier in the performance of this purchase order, to be confidential (“Confidential Information”). Supplier agrees that it shall not disclose Confidential Information to any other person or entity, or use Confidential Information for any purpose other than for providing the Goods under this purchase order, without the prior written consent of the Buyer. Supplier shall use no less than a reasonable standard of care to prevent unauthorized use, distribution or publication of Confidential Information.
ASSIGNMENT.
Supplier shall not assign or subcontract any of its rights or obligations under this purchase order without the prior written consent of Buyer. In no event shall Buyer’s written consent be construed as discharging or releasing Supplier from the performance of its obligations hereunder. Supplier shall remain jointly and severally liable with any assignee of its rights and/or obligations.
GOVERNING LAW.
The formation, interpretation and performance of this purchase order shall be governed by the laws of the state of Louisiana.
CANCELLATION.
Buyer may terminate all or any part of this purchase order upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) Supplier becomes insolvent, fails to pay its bills as due, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; and/or (2) Supplier fails to perform or violates any of the provisions of this purchase order. Buyer may suspend or terminate all or any part of this purchase order at any time for its sole convenience by written notice to Supplier. Termination shall be effective upon the earlier of actual receipt by Supplier of the notice or 48 hours after postmarked.
TAXES.
Supplier shall be responsible for the payment of any and all taxes that may be imposed upon it as a result of providing the Goods hereunder.
AUDIT.
Buyer reserves the right to audit and to examine any cost, payment, settlement or supporting documentation relating to any purchase order. Supplier agrees to cooperate with any such audit.
VALIDITY.
The invalidity, in whole or in part of any terms or conditions of this purchase order shall not affect the validity of any other terms or conditions.
SURVIVAL.
The obligations imposed on Supplier pursuant to this purchase order, including without limitation the following articles: Warranty, Indemnity, Confidentiality and this Survival provision, shall survive completion of the activities contemplated under this purchase order.
REMEDIES.
The remedies reserved in this purchase order are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies in law or equity which may be available to Buyer. The election of one or more remedies shall not bar the use of other remedies unless the circumstances make the remedies incompatible.
WAIVER.
Buyer’s failure to insist on performance of any of the terms and conditions herein, or to exercise any right or privilege, or Buyer’s waiver of any breach hereunder shall not thereafter waive any other terms, conditions or privileges, whether of the same or similar type.
LIMITATIONS.
BUYER’S TOTAL LIABILITY TO SUPPLIER IS LIMITED TO THE TOTAL PURCHASE ORDER AMOUNT AND SUPPLIER EXPRESSLY WAIVES ITS RIGHT TO RECOVER ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, DIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PENAL DAMAGES FROM BUYER IN CONNECTION WITH THE BREACH OF THIS PURCHASE ORDER.




Name:
Email:
Comment:
Sign up for updates from Drax
Sign up to receive our email newsletter to receive a regular roundup of Drax Group news and announcements
Enter your email
*
*Required
Select a country
*
United Kingdom
United States of America
Canada
Japan
Aaland Islands
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua And Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote D'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curacao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Falkland Islands
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern Territories
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard and Mc Donald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Jersey  (Channel Islands)
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Moldova, Republic of
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Korea
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Republic of Kosovo
Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa (Independent)
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Helena
St. Pierre and Miquelon
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkiye
Turkmenistan
Turks & Caicos Islands
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
Uruguay
USA Minor Outlying Islands
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City State (Holy See)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (British)
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
Wallis and Futuna Islands
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
*Required
Next
Choose your interests
Choose which Drax locations you’d like updates from:
Drax location of interest
*
All locations
UK (All)
Yorkshire & Humber
Scotland
US (All)
Alabama
Arkansas
California
Louisiana
Mississippi
Texas
Canada (All)
Alberta
British Columbia
Quebec
Japan
*Required
Select the specific Drax news you’d like to hear about:

All News



Sustainability News



Corporate News



Community News



Financial News


*Required

Previous

Next
Marketing Permissions
Select all the ways you would like to hear from Drax:


Email



*Required
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
Privacy Policy
and
Terms of Service
apply.
Learn about our privacy practices
.

Previous

Thank you for subscribing!
Welcome to Friends of Drax.
Error
Return

Contact us

Contact us

Accessibility
Compliance
Disclaimer
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy notices
Sitemap
REMIT
Terms of use
Website terms and conditions
Drax US

Drax Canada

Drax Global






