Funding secured to accelerate development of UK’s first decarbonised industrial clusters on the east coast of England - Zero Carbon Humber






















Home
The Vision
Who We Are
East Coast Cluster
News
Resources
Contact Us
Home
The Vision
Who We Are
East Coast Cluster
News
Resources
Contact Us

Funding secured to accelerate development of UK’s first decarbonised industrial clusters on the east coast of England
17/03/2021

Three industrial consortia secure further funding from the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund


Sunset at Filey, North Yorkshire, on the North Sea coast, equidistant between the Tees and Humber rivers


Three industrial consortia – Northern Endurance Partnership, Net Zero Teesside and Zero Carbon Humber - secure further funding from the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund to deliver the UK’s first decarbonised industrial clusters on the east coast of England
The three successful bids total £229 million in private and public funding and will accelerate development of integrated onshore and offshore infrastructure for carbon emissions and low carbon hydrogen
Bids from three industrial partnerships that will link together to deliver deep reductions in industrial emissions on the east coast of England have been awarded funding as part of the Industrial Decarbonisation Challenge under the UK Research and Innovation’s (UKRI) Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF). The three bids amount to £229 million in private and public funding, with industry contributing two-thirds of the total, and will support the next stage in development of the three projects.
The Northern Endurance Partnership (NEP) will accelerate the development of an offshore pipeline network and geological storage in the UK Southern North Sea. Captured carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions from both the Net Zero Teesside (NZT) and Zero Carbon Humber (ZCH) projects will be transported and permanently stored deep underground in Endurance, the UK’s largest appraised saline aquifer for carbon storage.
[caption id="attachment_899" align="aligncenter" width="1896"]
Click to view/download[/caption]
In Teesside, Net Zero Teesside (NZT) will develop a new flexible gas-fired power station with carbon capture and establish a CO
2
gathering network to enable decarbonisation of industrial emitters in the Teesside area.
In the Humber, the Zero Carbon Humber (ZCH) partnership will develop H2H Saltend, one of the world’s first at-scale low carbon hydrogen production plants, and a CO
2
and hydrogen pipeline network connecting to industrial sites and gas and biomass power stations throughout the Humber, enabling them to capture their CO
2
emissions and/or to switch to low carbon hydrogen.
NZT and ZCH are at-scale projects that will kick-start decarbonisation of industry and power in two of the UK’s largest industrial clusters. Both projects aim to be commissioned by 2026 with realistic pathways to achieve net zero through a combination of carbon capture and hydrogen. If successful, the combined projects will support decarbonisation of nearly 50% of the UK’s industrial emissions.
Andy Lane, Managing Director, NEP and NZT, commented:
“I am pleased to welcome the Phase 2 funding the projects have received through the ISCF, which will help to accelerate key elements of onshore and offshore CCUS infrastructure on the east coast of England. This support for CCUS in the UK is critical to enabling projects such as NEP, NZT and ZCH to enter Front-End Engineering Design (FEED), a crucial step forward as we look to develop the world’s first decarbonised industrial cluster by 2030. Public funding demonstrates Government commitment and increased ambition to establish the CCUS industry outlined in the recent Ten Point Plan and, along with clear Government policy, which is currently being developed, will unlock significant further investment from the private sector.”
Grete Tveit, Senior Vice President for Low Carbon Solutions at Equinor, which is a partner in ZCH, NZT and NEP, said:
“These awards are great news for the UK. The Humber and Teesside make up nearly half of UK’s industrial emissions so, to reach net zero, there is enormous value in tackling emissions at both clusters together. Rolling out carbon capture use & storage and hydrogen across the UK’s industrial clusters supports the Government’s aims for a green recovery and to level up by safeguarding and creating many high-skilled jobs, and will establish the UK as a world leader in hydrogen and low carbon technologies. As the UK’s leading energy provider, we will continue to work with our partners to progress our projects to final investment decision, engage locally and nationally to make this happen.”
Martin Cook, Senior Vice President for Business Development for National Grid Ventures, a partner in ZCH and NEP, said:
“These awards represent an important milestone as we look to decarbonise the UK’s largest industrial heartland and build a globally competitive platform for economic growth in the North of England.
“Teesside and the Humber offer the potential for a unique mix of technologies and scale to achieve net zero, delivering significant value for money. National Grid will use our knowledge and experience of gas and electricity transmission infrastructure, and our capabilities developed on previous CCS projects, to deliver the infrastructure required to enable industry to achieve deep decarbonisation.”
The Industrial Decarbonisation Challenge, funded as part of the ISCF, is the Government’s flagship challenge-led innovation programme, run through UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). Around £2.6bn of public money has already been invested through the programme in projects from all sectors to tackle big societal and industrial challenges of today.
-ENDS-
Notes to editors
About Northern Endurance Partnership:
bp, Equinor, Eni, National Grid, Shell and Total form the Northern Endurance Partnership, a partnership announced in October 2020 to develop offshore carbon dioxide (CO
2
) transport and storage infrastructure in the UK North Sea, with bp as operator. The infrastructure will serve the proposed Net Zero Teesside and Zero Carbon Humber projects, which aim to establish decarbonised industrial clusters in Teesside and Humber. If both projects fulfil their potential, NEP can enable the decarbonisation of nearly 50% of the UK’s industrial emissions.
About Net Zero Teesside:
Net Zero Teesside is a Carbon Capture, Utilisation and Storage (CCUS) project, based in Teesside in the North East of England. In partnership with local industry and with committed, world class partners, it aims to start up in 2026 and fully decarbonise a cluster of carbon-intensive businesses by as early as 2030. Net Zero Teesside comprises a consortium of bp, Eni, Equinor, Shell and Total, with bp leading as operator. The Project plans to capture up to 10 million tonnes of CO
2
emissions each year, equivalent to the emissions associated with the annual energy use of up to 3 million homes in the UK. To learn more about Net Zero Teesside, please visit
www.netzeroteesside.co.uk
About Zero Carbon Humber:
The Zero Carbon Humber (ZCH) Partnership aims to decarbonise the UK’s largest and most carbon-intensive industrial cluster, supporting the UK net zero target. With its first project aiming to start up in 2026, ZCH will establish critical infrastructure to capture at least 17 million tonnes of CO
2
emissions per year and supply up to 10 gigawatts of hydrogen in industry and power projects across the Humber by the mid-2030s. ZCH will contribute significantly to UK ambitions for 10 million tonnes of CO
2
capture and 5GW of low carbon hydrogen production by 2030, and provide carbon negative power from biomass with carbon capture technology (BECCS). The ZCH Partnership includes Associated British Ports, British Steel, Centrica Storage Ltd, Drax Group, Equinor, Mitsubishi Power, National Grid Ventures, px Group, SSE Thermal, Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited, Uniper, and the University of Sheffield Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC). To learn more, please visit
www.zerocarbonhumber.co.uk
Media Contacts
For NZT:
Jamie Gardiner
[email protected]
0207 413 3506
For ZCH:
Richard Royal
[email protected]
07809 467883


RELATED NEWS
27/05/2019
Leading energy companies announce new zero-carbon UK partnership
Drax Group, Equinor and National Grid Ventures partner to explore large-scale carbon capture usage and storage (CCUS) and a hydrogen production facility in the Humber.

17/07/2019
Laying down the pathway to carbon capture in a net zero UK
The numbers must add up to enable negative emissions in a zero carbon future, writes Drax Group CEO Will Gardiner.

01/09/2019
Infographic: Capturing carbon dioxide from biomass generation at Drax Power Station
View/download



Website Terms and Conditions
Privacy notices
Terms of use
Compliance
Accessibility
Newsletter Sign Up
CONTACT US

