New approach helps ensure communities and climate benefit from working forests - Earthworm




Our Work
About Us
Join Us
Resources
News & Stories
Events & Webinars
Campaigns
#NavigatingRegulations
#FortheForests
#LookDownToo
Leading to impact
In The Media
Contact
Search

English
Bahasa Indonesia
Español
Français
Português
Share
Home
News & Stories
New approach helps ensure communities and climate benefit from working forests
Earthworm Foundation and Drax develop data-led approach to measure forest health
Home
News & Stories
New approach helps ensure communities and climate benefit from working forests
Earthworm Foundation and Drax develop data-led approach to measure forest health
News
Oct 21, 2020

Earthworm Foundation and Drax develop data-led approach to help ensure communities and climate benefit from working forests
Non-profit organisation Earthworm Foundation and energy company Drax Group have launched a new evidence-based approach to measure and evaluate the health of a forest, enabling the forestry industry to identify opportunities to support communities, biodiversity and tackle climate change.
The new tool, known as
Healthy Forest Landscapes (HFL)
, will ensure that working forests continue to benefit the communities that depend on them, as well as the environment, amid increasing demand for sustainable wood products across a wide range of industries.
By using HFL, the forestry industry will be able to more accurately identify opportunities for positive interventions which support healthy forests and help to drive improvements across the sector.
Earthworm Foundation Senior Adviser on Forestry, Björn Roberts said: “We have a responsibility to preserve the health of our planet’s forests, and an opportunity to regenerate them. In doing this, we can contribute to tackling the climate and biodiversity crises and help ensure local communities’ rights and welfare are respected. The first pilot projects show where we need to refine the methodology, but they also indicate that the HFL approach is feasible and can help companies and local actors contribute to regeneration of these landscapes.”
The HFL approach assesses four key areas – forest cover, carbon stock, biodiversity and community wellbeing – the same priorities Drax focuses on in its own
policy
on sustainable biomass sourcing.
Richard Peberdy, Head of Sustainable Forests at Drax, said: “As a major user of sustainable biomass, Drax is committed to continuously raising standards across the industry to ensure the biomass we use makes a positive contribution to our climate, the environment and the communities in which we operate.
“The HFL tool provides a consistent framework for evaluating different types of forests in different regions and countries. It gives us a clearer picture of forest health and allows us to obtain the evidence that the forests we source from are replanted, continue to store carbon and remain biodiverse and healthy while sustaining jobs and other opportunities.”
The new HFL tool is important because it gives businesses like Drax the information needed to ensure its operations positively impact the forests where it sources its biomass.
HFL does this by measuring changes in the forest landscape using empirical evidence such as big data from government statistics, and input from remote sensing technologies, such as earth observation from satellites. HFL also uses an Earthworm-developed socio-economic evaluation methodology to assess community wellbeing.
Preliminary findings from the first pilot study at Drax’s Amite pellet plant in Mississippi show stable forest cover, carbon and biodiversity levels through the period 2010 to 2018, with a slight overall increase in total forested area, a marginal increase in the proportion under planted pine and slight decrease in the proportion under broadleaf forest.
The local communities are among the poorest in the US. A sample of local people interviewed by Earthworm cited lack of economic opportunity for young people, together with a perceived decline in education services, as their greatest concerns. A number referred to Drax’s Amite pellet mill as a rare example of job creation in the local forest sector.
The HFL programme builds on Earthworm Foundation’s successful work over the last twenty years to engage consumer goods brands and retailers with their upstream sourcing landscapes and promote responsible production of forest and agricultural commodities.
Earthworm Foundation is sharing the HFL methodology and early results from this Drax pilot project with companies that rely on supplies from the forestry sector, such as the pulp and paper and biomass industries, aiming to increase adoption of the new approach.
Learn more about the HFL approach
.
Related News:
Areas of work:
Healthy Forests
Products:
Pulp & Paper
Members:
Drax Group
You might be interested in...
Sep 30, 2022
Technology to Monitor Deforestation in Supply Chains

Read more

Jun 27, 2022
La Fabril's Membership Suspended Due to Community Issues

Read more

Jul 18, 2023
Monitoring Land Use Change to Curb Deforestation

Read more

Newsletter
Sign-up to our Newsletter and Stay Updated
Please tick to agree to receive email about Earthworm and acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing.
Learn more about Mailchimp's privacy practices here.



Our work

Our fieldwork in landscapes
Raw materials we work in
About us

About Earthworm
Our vision
Our values
The Earthworm Story
Our people
Our members
Our partners
Join us

Join Us
Locations
All locations
News & Stories
Latest News
Languages
Português
English
Bahasa Indonesia
Español
Français
Follow Us
LinkedIn
YouTube
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
2023 Copyright © Earthworm. |
Legal
|
Privacy Policy
| Design by
Saentys
